This article shows how symbolic computing and the mathematical formalism induced by maximizing entropy and minimizing the mean deviation from statistical equilibrium may be effectively applied to obtaining probabilistic models for the structure of atoms, using trial wave functions compatible with an average shell picture of the atom. The objective is not only to recover the experimental value of the ground state mean energy of the atom, but rather to better approximate the unknown parameters of these trial functions and to calculate both correlations between electrons and the amount of interdependence among different subsets of electrons of the atoms. The examples and numerical results refer to the hydrogen, helium, lithium, and beryllium atoms. The main computer programs, using the symbolic computing software MATHEMATICA, are also given.
We present for the first time an analytical potential energy surface (PES) for the reaction of hydrogen abstraction from ammonia by a chlorine atom. It has a very complicated shape with various maxima and minima. The functional form used in the development of the PES considered the stretching and bending nuclear motions, and the parameters in the calibration process were fitted to reproduce exclusively highlevel ab initio electronic structure calculations obtained at the CCSD(T) ¼ FULL/aug-cc-pVTZ//CCSD(T) ¼ FC/cc-pVTZ single point level. Thus, the surface is completely symmetric with respect to the permutation of the three ammonia hydrogen atoms, and no experimental information is used in the process. The ab initio information used in the fit includes a wide spectrum of properties (equilibrium geometries, relative energies, and vibrational frequencies) of the reactants, products, saddle point, intermediate complexes in the entry and exit channels, points on the reaction path, and points on the reaction swath. By comparison with the reference results, we show that the resulting PES reproduces not only the ab initio data used in the fitting procedure but also other thermochemical and kinetics results computed at the same ab initio level, which were not used in the fit-equilibrium constants, rate constants, and kinetic isotope effects. This represents a severe test for the new surface. As a first application, we perform an extensive kinetics study using variational transition-state theory with semiclassical transmission coefficients over a wide temperature range, 200-2000 K, on this analytical PES. The forward rate constants reproduce the sparse experimental measurements, while the reverse ones reproduce the change of activation energy with temperature reported in another theoretical study, although unfortunately there are no experimental
Forward and backward electron/proton ionization/dissociation spectra from one-dimensional non-Born-Oppenheimer H 2 molecule exposed to ultrashort intense laser pulses (I54310 14 W/ cm 2 , k 5 800 nm) have been computed by numerically solving the time-dependent Schr€ odinger equation. The resulting above-threshold ionization and above-threshold dissociation spectra exhibit the characteristic forward-backward asymmetry and sensitivity to the carrier-envelope phase (CEP), particularly for high energies. A general framework for understanding CEP effects in the asymmetry of dissociative ionization of H 2 has been established. It is found that the symmetry breaking of electron-proton distribution with p periodic modulation occurs for all CEPs except for n20 2n30 (n5 integer) and the largest asymmetry coming from the CEP of n110 . At least one of the electron and proton distributions is asymmetric when measured simultaneously. Inspection of the nuclear and electron wave packet dynamics provides further information about the relative contribution of the gerade and ungerade states of H 1 2 to the dissociation channel and the time delay of electrons in asymmetric ionization.
Quantum chemistry is an important area of application for quantum computation. In particular, quantum algorithms applied to the electronic structure problem promise exact, efficient methods for determination of the electronic energy of atoms and molecules. The Bravyi-Kitaev transformation is a method of mapping the occupation state of a fermionic system onto qubits. This transformation maps the Hamiltonian of n interacting fermions to an Oðlog nÞ-local Hamiltonian of n qubits. This is an improvement in locality over the Jordan-Wigner transformation, which results in an O(n)-local qubit Hamiltonian. We present the Bravyi-Kitaev transformation in detail, introducing the sets of qubits which must be acted on to change occupancy and parity of states in the occupation number basis. We give recursive definitions of these sets and of the transformation and inverse transformation matrices, which relate the occupation number basis and the Bravyi-Kitaev basis. We then compare the use of the Jordan-Wigner and Bravyi-Kitaev Hamiltonians for the quantum simulation of methane using the STO-6G basis.
The polyphenol compound Kaempferol, a relevant member of the class of flavonoids, is a good example where coordination to Zn(II) ion was found to improve the anticancer effects compared to the free ligand. Determination of the metal-complex molecular structure (and binding sites on Kaempferol) in the liquid phase is fundamental for an understanding of biological activities.
The internal disorder of the confined two-dimensional hydrogenic atom is numerically studied in terms of the confinement radius for the 1s, 2s, 2p, and 3d quantum states by means of the statistical Crámer-Rao complexity measure. First, the confinement dependence of the variance and the Fisher information of the position and momentum spreading of its electron distribution are computed and discussed. Then, the Crámer-Rao complexity measure (which quantifies the combined balance of the charge concentration around the mean value and the gradient content of the electron distribution) is investigated in position and momentum spaces. We found that confinement does distinguish complexity of the system for all quantum states by means of these two component measures.
Quantum algorithms on noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) devices are expected to soon simulate quantum systems that are classically intractable. However, the non-negligible gate error present on NISQ devices impedes the implementation of many purely quantum algorithms, necessitating the use of hybrid quantum-classical algorithms. One such hybrid quantum-classical algorithm, is based upon quantum computed Hamiltonian moments ϕj Ĥn jϕ D E n ¼ 1,2,ÁÁÁ ð Þ , with respect to quantum state j ϕi. In this tutorial review, we will give a brief review of these quantum algorithms with focuses on the typical ways of computing Hamiltonian moments using quantum hardware and improving the accuracy of the estimated state energies based on the quantum computed moments. We also present a computation of the Hamiltonian moments of a four-site Heisenberg model and compute the energy and magnetization of the model utilizing the imaginary time evolution on current IBM-Q hardware. Finally, we discuss some possible developments and applications of Hamiltonian moment methods.
The rapid and successful strides in quantum chemistry in the past decades can be largely credited to a conspicuous synergy between theoretical and computational advancements. However, the architectural computer archetype that enabled such a progress is approaching a state of more stagnant development. One of the most promising technological avenues for the continuing progress of quantum chemistry is the emerging quantum computing paradigm. This revolutionary proposal comes with several challenges, which span a wide array of disciplines. In chemistry, it implies, among other things, a need to reformulate some of its long established cornerstones in order to adjust to the operational demands and constraints of quantum computers.
Recent spintronics, thermoelectrics, and quantum computing technologies often desire different types of Heusler alloys because of their extensive uses and versatile properties. Although diverse experiments and theoretical efforts have been dedicated to several Heusler alloys for understanding their key properties, no detailed work has yet been performed on the unclear features of Sc 2 NiZ (Z = Si, Ge, and Sn) Heusler alloys. So, we aimed to clarify their electronic, optical, elastic, mechanical, anisotropic, and temperature-dependent thermoelectric characteristics via density functional theory (DFT). All investigated alloys exhibit inherent metallic character confirmed by the electronic band analysis and the calculated Poisson's ratios.
The field of quantum computing has undergone significant expansion and development in recent years. A quantitative and comprehensive examination of the research domain is essential to comprehend research trends and directions in the field. Henceforth, the current paper conducts a scientometric analysis of the academic literature on quantum computing retrieved from the Scopus database to understand the recent advances made by researchers in the domain. The analysis evaluates the state of the discipline's research by examining the most prominent journals and highly referenced articles. CiteSpace is leveraged to visualize the intellectual landscape of quantum state preparation by performing document co-citation and author co-citation analysis. The analysis reveals that trapped ions, photonic qubits, superconducting qubits, nitrogen-vacancy centers, and nuclear spin qubits are the primary research topics in quantum computing. Furthermore, the most current research issues that require attention in the field are measurement-based qubits, Majorana fermions, and quantum dots.
Reducing p-nitrophenol (PNP) to p-aminophenol is an industrially relevant synthesis.
Thermodynamic properties of molecules provide fundamental information for binding in fragment-based drug discovery programs and for understanding complex interactions. Experimental measurements of some thermodynamic properties are not always feasible. Quantum mechanical methods and group contribution methods are the major toolboxes to obtain some theoretical quantities. In drug discovery and development, computational studies can reduce the costs and risks of bringing a new medicine to market. Computational methods have been widely used to optimize promising new ligands by estimating their binding affinity to proteins using the thermodynamic ligand binding parameters (Gibbs energy, enthalpy, entropy, and heat capacity). In this article,
The Dicke model describes the coupling between a quantized cavity field and a large ensemble of two-level atoms. When the number of atoms tends to infinity, this model can undergo a transition to a superradiant phase, belonging to the mean-field Ising universality class. The superradiant transition was first predicted for atoms in thermal equilibrium and was recently realized with a quantum simulator made of atoms in an optical cavity, subject to both dissipation and driving. This progress report offers an introduction to some theoretical concepts relevant to the Dicke model, reviewing the critical properties of the superradiant phase transition and the distinction between equilibrium and nonequilibrium conditions. In addition, it explains the fundamental difference between the superradiant phase transition and the more common lasing transition. This report mostly focuses on the steady states of atoms in single-mode optical cavities, but it also mentions some aspects of real-time dynamics, as well as other quantum simulators, including superconducting qubits, trapped ions, and using spin-orbit coupling for cold atoms. These realizations differ in regard to whether they describe equilibrium or nonequilibrium systems.
Computers are dynamical systems that carry out information processing through their change of state with time. For instance, neural networks such as Hopfield's associative memory are dissipative dynamical systems in a finite dimensional configuration space with attractors that represent stored patterns. In particular, dissipative dynamical systems with an infinite dimensional configuration space are of broad interest and have the possibility to store and restore complex and strongly distorted data structures. In this work, the nonlinear Schrödinger equation (NLSE) with a dissipative perturbation which creates a frictional force acting on soliton is considered. It is shown that the control of the perturbative term allows one to decrease the velocity of soliton to zero and conserve a positive value of its amplitude. The existence of such a frictional force would suggest that the perturbation makes the zero-velocity solitonic solution of non-zero amplitude into an attractor for all evolution trajectories whose initial conditions are moving solitons. This allows a way to store information in the infinite dimensional dynamical system governed by NLSE using principles which are completely analogous to that of Hopfield's associative memory. This approach can be realized with solitons in Bose-Einstein condensates and nonlinear optical systems.
Efficient deterministic algorithms are proposed with logarithmic step complexities for the generation of entangled GHZ N and W N states useful for quantum networks, and an implementation on the IBM quantum computer up to N = 16 is demonstrated. Improved quality is then investigated using full quantum tomography for low-N GHZ and W states. This is completed by parity oscillations and histogram distance for large-N GHZ and W states, respectively. Robust states are built with about twice the number of quantum bits which were previously achieved.
Here, ultra-long lifetimes of defect-trapped single quantum emitters (SQEs) in monolayer WSe 2 /hBN heterostructures are reported. The lifetimes of these SQEs are approximately 225 ns, more than two orders of magnitude larger than what has been previously reported for defect-trapped excitons in WSe 2 . These SQEs consist of co-linearly polarized doublet peaks with a fine structure splitting of 0.45 meV. Second-order correlation measurements show antibunched single-photon emission with a g (2) (0) value of 0.13. Through numerical analysis and modeling, it is shown how such long-lifetime single emitters can arise from bright and dark exciton coupling in antisite defects on the W sites. Additionally, high-quality single-photon emission over a wide range of lifetimes-from 2 ns to over 200 ns-is also reported, suggesting a variety of other possible defect structures present. The flexibility to generate high fidelity single-photon emission, over a wide range of lifetimes in a single material system, has potential in many optical quantum computing applications from high-bit-rate single-photon sources to quantum memory devices.
Superwettable materials have been studied extensively and successfully applied in various forms liquid separation. However, because of low surface tension differences, organic liquids (OLs) exhibit approximate wettability on most of the material surfaces, and the separation of OL mixtures remains a challenge. The current separation method for OL mixtures is mainly dependent on covalent modification to precisely control the surface energy of the membranes, which is extremely complicated. Herein, we demonstrate a novel concept of underliquid superlyophobicity for the separation of immiscible OLs mixtures, which only depend on a relatively stable liquid-repellent interface. Furthermore, the minimum system's free-energy principle was used to explain this wetting behavior. Different from the previous reports, the method of separation of OL mixtures does not involve various low-surface-energy materials, thus it is facile and eco-friendly. Our research provides a general strategy for the efficient separation of immiscible OLs mixtures and is expected to promote the development of superwettable materials for multiphase liquid separation.
The multistep biological process of myogenesis is regulated by a variety of myoblast regulators, such as myogenic differentiation antigen, myogenin, myogenic regulatory factor, myocyte enhancer factor2A-D and myosin heavy chain. Proliferation and differentiation during skeletal muscle myogenesis contribute to the physiological function of muscles. Certain non-coding RNAs, including long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and circular RNAs (circRNAs), are involved in the regulation of muscle development, and the aberrant expressions of lncRNAs and circRNAs are associated with muscular diseases. In this review, we summarize the recent advances concerning the roles of lncRNAs and circRNAs in regulating the developmental aspects of myogenesis. These findings have remarkably broadened our understanding of the gene regulation mechanisms governing muscle proliferation and differentiation, which makes it more feasible to design novel preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for muscle disorders.
Mixing of topological states with superconductivity could result in topological superconductivity with the elusive Majorana fermions potentially applicable in fault-tolerant quantum computing. One possible candidate considered for realization of topological superconductivity is thin bismuth films on Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+𝜹 (Bi2212). Here, angle-resolved and core-level photoemission spectroscopy studies of thin Bi films grown in-situ on as-grown Bi2212 showing the absence of proximity effect are presented. It is found that the electron transfer from the film to the substrate and the resulting severe underdoping of Bi2212 at the interface is a likely origin for the absence of proximity effect. A possible way of preventing a total loss of proximity effect in this system is also proposed. These results offer a better and more universal understanding of the film/cuprate interface and resolve many issues related to the proximity effect.
A spin qubit in semiconductor quantum dots holds promise for quantum information processing for scalability and long coherence time. An important semiconductor qubit system is a double quantum dot trapping two electrons or holes, whose spin states encode either a singlet-triplet qubit or two single-spin qubits coupled by exchange interaction. In this article, progress on the spin dephasing of two exchange-coupled spins in a double quantum dot is reported. First, the schemes of two-qubit gates and qubit encodings in gate-defined quantum dots or donor atoms based on the exchange interaction are discussed. Then, the progress on spin dephasing of a singlet-triplet qubit or a two-qubit gate is reported. The methods of suppressing spin dephasing are further discussed. The understanding of the spin dephasing may provide insights into the realization of high-fidelity quantum gates for spin-based quantum computing.
3D topological insulators attract much attention due to their topologically protected Dirac surface states. Doping into topological insulators or their proximity with normal superconductors can promote the realization of topological superconductivity and Majorana fermions with potential applications in quantum computation. Here, an emergent superconductivity is observed in local mesoscopic point-contacts on the topological insulator Bi 2 Se 3 by applying a voltage pulse through the contacts, evidenced by the Andreev reflection peak in the point-contact spectra and a visible resistance drop in the four-probe electrical resistance measurements. More intriguingly, the superconductivity can be erased with thermal cycles by warming up to high temperatures (300 K) and induced again by the voltage pulse at the base temperature (1.9 K), suggesting a significance for designing new types of quantum devices. Nematic behavior is also observed in the superconducting state, similar to the case of Cu x Bi 2 Se 3 as topological superconductor candidates.
Quantum photonic system has made remarkable achievements in computing and communication. Serving as quantum information carriers, photons are flying qubits and robust against decoherence, emerging as a desirable platform to make quantum processor a reality. However, with system's complexity and functionality scaling up, the requirements for stability, programmability, and manufacturability will be in high demand. Integrated photonics, compatible with complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor fabrication, has overwhelming dominance in terms of density and performance, making it an unrivaled contender for large-scale quantum information processing (QIP). To improve the performance of individual blocks and integrate them on a common substrate is one of the core tasks for a practical quantum processor. Here, the recent advances in components that constitute quantum photonic systems on silicon photonics platform, including sources, modulators, and detectors are reviewed. Burgeoning quantum photonics applications, such as multi-dimensional, multi-photon QIP and integrated quantum key distribution are highlighted.
Worldwide, enormous efforts are directed toward the development of the so-called quantum internet. Turning this long-sought-after dream into reality is a great challenge that will require breakthroughs in quantum communication and computing. To establish a global, quantum-secured communication infrastructure, photonic quantum technologies will doubtlessly play a major role, by providing and interfacing essential quantum resources, for example, flying-and stationary qubits or quantum memories. Over the last decade, significant progress has been made in the engineering of on-demand quantum light sources based on semiconductor quantum dots, which enable the generation of close-to-ideal single-and entangled-photon states, useful for applications in quantum information processing. This review focuses on implementations of, and building blocks for, quantum communication using quantum-light sources based on epitaxial semiconductor quantum dots. After reviewing the main notions of quantum communication and introducing the devices used for single-photon and entangled-photon generation, an overview of experimental implementations of quantum key distribution protocols using quantum dot based quantum light sources is provided. Furthermore, recent progress toward quantum-secured communication networks as well as building blocks thereof is summarized. The article closes with an outlook, discussing future perspectives in the field and identifying the main challenges to be solved.
materials are a family of layered materials exhibiting rich exotic phenomena, such as valley-contrasting physics. Down to single-particle level, unraveling fundamental physics and potential applications including quantum information processing in these materials attracts significant research interests. To unlock these great potentials, gate-controlled quantum dot architectures have been applied in 2D materials and their heterostructures. Such systems provide the possibility of electrical confinement, control, and manipulation of single carriers in these materials. In this review, efforts in gate-controlled quantum dots in 2D materials are presented. Following basic introductions to valley degree of freedom and gate-controlled quantum dot systems, the up-to-date progress in etched and gate-defined quantum dots in 2D materials, especially in graphene and transition metal dichalcogenides, is provided. The challenges and opportunities for future developments in this field, from views of device design, fabrication scheme, and control technology, are discussed. The rapid progress in this field not only sheds light on the understanding of spin-valley physics but also provides an ideal platform for investigating diverse condensed matter physics phenomena and realizing quantum computation in the 2D limit.
With the advancement of computing power and algorithms, machine learning has been a powerful tool in numerous applications nowadays. However, the hardware limitation of classical computers and the increasing size of datasets urge the community to explore new techniques for machine learning. Quantum-enhanced machine learning is such a rapidly growing field. It refers to quantum algorithms that are implemented in quantum computers, which can improve the computational speed of classical machine learning tasks and often promises an exponential speedup. In the past few years, the development of experimental quantum technologies leads to many experimental demonstrations of quantum-enhanced machine learning in diverse physical systems. Here, the recent experimental progress in this field in two typical spin-based quantum systems-nuclear magnetic resonance and nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond-is reviewed, and the ongoing challenges are discussed.
Recent technological advances in the noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) era are promising. Optically addressable color centers in semiconductors can achieve spin localization and are the most promising spin qubit candidates for NISQ technologies. Exploring a suitable and scalable atomic-like color center is a prerequisite in this context. Here, a symmetry-protected two-level system (qubit) derived from a set of naturally separated Bell states in the H 3 center with C 2v symmetry is characterized. The characterized qubit significantly reduces magnetic noise compared with a degenerate triplet in C 3v systems for conventional qubits. The Hamiltonian, including the Coulomb interaction, spin-orbit coupling, and spin-spin interaction, is comprehensively developed using a combination of first-principle calculations and group theory analyses. Consequently, an intrinsic spin-phonon interface embedded in an optical spin-polarization loop can enable an effective interrogation of the information of the two-level system. This study not only paves the way for developing further quantum information science applications utilizing the H 3 center but also provides a competitive qubit candidate for the NISQ era.
The interplay between superconductivity and ferromagnetism in the superconductor/ferromagnet (SC/FM) heterostructures generates many interesting physical phenomena, including spin-triplet superconductivity, superconducting order parameter oscillation, and topological superconductivity. The unique physical properties make the SC/FM heterostructure as promising platforms for future superconducting spintronics and quantum computation applications. In this article, important research progress of SC/FM heterostructures from superconducting spintronics to quantum computation is reviewed, and it is organized as follows. First, the progress of spin current carriers in SC/FM heterostructures including Bogoliubov quasiparticles, superconducting vortex, and spin-triplet Cooper pairs which might be used for long-range spin transport is discussed. Then, the 𝝅 Josephson junctions and their application for constructing 𝝅 qubits are described. Finally, experimental signatures of Majorana states in the SC/FM heterostructures and the theoretically proposed manipulation are briefly reviewed, which could be useful to realize fault-tolerant topological quantum computing.
Hyper-entangled states that encode qubits in multiple degrees of freedom of a quantum system can provide a decisive advantage in quantum information processing, such as improving the capacity of communication and speeding up the computation. Assisted by quantum dots in single-sided optical microcavities, nonlinear interaction of optical circular polarizations is induced and a deterministic scheme for preparing a three-photon hyper-entangled asymmetric W state with polarization degree of freedom and spatial degree of freedom is proposed. The preparing process is composed of three steps: the preparation of a three-photon polarization entangled asymmetric W state; the preparation of a three-photon spatial entangled asymmetric W state; the preparation of a three-photon hyper-entangled asymmetric W state. It can be generalized to generate a three-photon general W state according to practical requirement.
Theoretical schemes for the implementation of the Grover search algorithm are proposed based on ultracold polar molecules in an electric field. The molecular qubits and qudit are chosen as the field-dressed states formed by the rotational modes of CH 3 CN. With the help of multi-target optimal control theory, the microwave pulses for the elementary logic operations including the one-qubit Hadamard gates and the conditional phase gates in a dipole-dipole system are designed and the factorized Grover algorithm demonstrated using two coupled CH 3 CN molecules. To reduce the accumulation of imprecision and decoherence resulting from the combination of multiple elementary gates, the optimal pulses that can achieve the two-qubit Hadamard gate and diffusion operation in one step are designed successfully. In this way, the probabilities to find the states corresponding to the desired elements in an unsorted database are enhanced to some extent. Moreover, the optimal pulse sequence suitable for a four-level molecular qudit, which can be used to simulate the quantum search on a single CH 3 CN molecule with high fidelity, is designed. These results can shed some light on the physical realization of quantum computing based on ultracold polyatomic molecules.
Demonstrating quantum advantage on noisy quantum devices is one of the most important tasks of quantum computing research in the near future. Random quantum circuit sampling is proposed as the most promising approach to the task and has been implemented in experiments for achieving quantum advantage. A series of encouraging computational complexity results, based on some plausible assumptions, show that this task is impossible to complete efficiently by classical computers. However, in practical experiments on noisy quantum devices, the approximate average-case hardness and the effects of the noise need to be further checked. The competition between the classical simulation algorithm (mainly based on tensor network algorithms) and noisy quantum devices is the explicit way to understand quantum advantage in practice. This review briefly overviews the computational complexity arguments for the hardness of classical simulation of random quantum circuits sampling, then focus on various methods of classical simulation of quantum circuits based on tensor network method.
The energy sector is expected to undergo significant changes in the coming decades with the advent of new technologies, including smart grid development, microgrid expansion, increasing electric vehicle and renewable energy usage, and enhanced measures to minimize greenhouse gas emission, among others. In tandem, these changes are expected to create new opportunities for the deployment of quantum technologies within the energy sector. Building on the authors' previous reviews on the current state of and future opportunities for quantum sensing, quantum computing and quantum simulations for energy sector applications, this work provides an overview of recent progress in quantum networking and communications for the energy industry, with a focus on platforms, devices, and protocols, including quantum teleportation and quantum key distribution. Specific areas of relevance to the energy sector are then analyzed, including the role of quantum networks for greenhouse gas monitoring, secure data collection and transmission in smart grids, nuclear power plants' safety, facilitating oil and gas exploration, and other energy-relevant applications. This review concludes with a brief overview of areas for future innovation, including the need for platforms for simulating quantum networks, quantum material and platform design, and computational approaches to accelerate quantum protocol discovery and development.
W states play an important role in quantum information processing and quantum computing. Here, it proposes a scheme for preparing W states by designing the evolution operators with Rydberg superatoms. It encodes quantum information on the effective energy level of the superatom, and construct shortcuts to adiabatic passages (STAP) by designing the evolution operators. Combined with Quantum Zeno dynamics and STAP, it can prepare three-particle W states quickly and efficiently. In addition, the Rabi frequency in this scheme can be described as a linear superposition of Gaussian functions, which reduces the difficulty of practical experiment. The numerical simulation shows that the scheme is robust against decoherence, operational imperfection, and noise. At last, it generalizes this scheme to preparation of N-particle W states.
In the original published article the simulations of the effects of diagonal disorder incorrectly contained a factor of (1/2). This weakened the effects of diagonal errors, compared to the correctly simulated off-diagonal errors. Here, this issue is remedied by presenting the corrected effects of diagonal disorder. The corrected Figure 
The manuscript theoretically discusses various important aspects for donor atom based single qubit operations in silicon (Si) quantum computer architecture at room temperature using a single nitrogen (N) deep-donor close to the Si/SiO 2 interface. Quantitative investigation of room temperature single electron shuttling between a single N-donor atom and the interface is the focus of attention under the influence of externally applied electric and magnetic field. To apprehend the realistic experimental configurations, central cell correction along with effective mass approach is adopted throughout the study. Furthermore, a detailed discussion currently explores the significant time scales implicated in the process and their suitability for experimental purposes. Theoretical estimates are also provided for all the external fields required to successfully achieve coherent single electron shuttling and their stable maintenance at the interface as required. The results presented in this work offer practical guidance for quantum electron control using N-donor atoms in Si at room temperature.
Circuit depth optimization is crucial for implementing quantum algorithms in practical systems. The decomposition of (n + 1)-qubit Toffoli gate is continually optimized since this gate is a fundamental component for many quantum algorithms. Without any ancilla, (n + 1)-qubit Toffoli gate can be decomposed by standard gates with circuit depth 33n -47. Here, the decomposition is further optimized and its circuit depth is reduced to 17n -38. The decomposition is equivalent to (n + 1)-qubit Toffoli gate up to an overall phase and also does not need any ancilla.
The development of quantum-enabled photonic technologies has opened new avenues for advanced illumination across diverse fields, including sensing, computing, materials, and integration. This review highlights how Quantum-enhanced sensing and imaging exploit nonclassical correlations to attain unprecedented accuracy in chaotic environments. As well as guaranteeing secure communications, quantum cryptography, protected by physical principles, ensures unbreakable cryptographic key exchange. As quantum computing speed increases exponentially, previously unimplementable uses for classical computers become feasible. On-chip integration enables the mass production of quantum photonic components for pervasive applications by facilitating miniaturization and scalability. A powerful and flexible platform is produced when classical and quantum systems are combined. Quantum spin liquids and other topological materials can maintain their quantum states while subject to decoherence. Despite challenges with decoherence, production, and commercialization, quantum photonics is an exciting new area of study that promises lighting techniques impossible with conventional optics. To realize this promise, researchers from several fields must work together to solve complex technical problems and decode fundamental physics. Finally, advances in quantum-enabled photonics have the potential to evolve quantum photonic devices and cutting-edge imaging methods and usher in a new age of lighting options based on quantum dots.
Diamond has emerged as a highly promising platform for quantum network applications. Color centers in diamond fulfill the fundamental requirements for quantum nodes: they constitute optically accessible quantum systems with long-lived spin qubits. Furthermore, they provide access to a quantum register of electronic and nuclear spin qubits and they mediate entanglement between spins and photons. All these operations require coherent control of the color center's spin state. This review provides a comprehensive overview of the state-of-the-art, challenges, and prospects of such schemes, including high-fidelity initialization, coherent manipulation, and readout of spin states. Established microwave and optical control techniques are reviewed, and moreover, emerging methods such as cavity-mediated spin-photon interactions and mechanical control based on spin-phonon interactions are summarized. For different types of color centers, namely, nitrogen-vacancy and group-IV color centers, distinct challenges persist that are subject of ongoing research. Beyond fundamental coherent spin qubit control techniques, advanced demonstrations in quantum network applications are outlined, for example, the integration of individual color centers for accessing (nuclear) multiqubit registers. Finally, the role of diamond spin qubits in the realization of future quantum information applications is described.
The development of single-platform qubits, predominant for most of the last few decades, has driven the progress of quantum information technologies but also highlighted the limitations of various platforms. Some inherent issues, such as charge/spin noise in materials hinder certain platforms, while increased decoherence upon attempts to scale up severely impacts qubit quality and coupling on others. In addition, a universal solution for coherent information transfer between quantum systems remains lacking. By combining one or more qubit platforms, one could potentially create new hybrid platforms that might alleviate significant issues that current single-platform qubits suffer from, and in some cases, even facilitate the conversion of static to flying qubits on the same hybrid platform. While nascent, this is an area of rising importance that could shed new light on robust and scalable qubit development and provide new impetus for research directions. Here, the requirements for hybrid systems are defined with artificial atoms in the solid state, exemplified with systems that are proposed or attempted, and conclude with the outlook for such hybrid quantum systems.
This tutorial introduces a systematic approach for addressing the key question of quantum metrology: For a generic task of sensing an unknown parameter, what is the ultimate precision given a constrained set of admissible strategies. The approach outputs the maximal attainable precision (in terms of the maximum of quantum Fisher information) as a semidefinite program and optimal strategies as feasible solutions thereof. Remarkably, the approach can identify the optimal precision for different sets of strategies, including parallel, sequential, quantum SWITCH-enhanced, causally superposed, and generic indefinite-causal-order strategies. The tutorial consists of a pedagogic introduction to the background and mathematical tools of optimal quantum metrology, a detailed derivation of the main approach, and various concrete examples. As shown in the tutorial, applications of the approach include, but are not limited to, strict hierarchy of strategies in noisy quantum metrology, memory effect in non-Markovian metrology, and designing optimal strategies. Compared with traditional approaches, the approach here yields the exact value of the optimal precision, offering more accurate criteria for experiments and practical applications. It also allows for the comparison between conventional strategies and the recently discovered causally-indefinite strategies, serving as a powerful tool for exploring this new area of quantum metrology.
Genuine multipartite non-locality is not only of fundamental interest but also serves as an important resource for quantum information theory. The N-partite scenario and provide an analytical upper bound on the maximal expectation value of the generalized Svetlichny inequality achieved by an arbitrary N-qubit system is considered. Furthermore, the constraints on quantum states for which the upper bound is tight are also presented and illustrated by noisy generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. Especially, the new techniques proposed to derive the upper bound allow more insights into the structure of the generalized Svetlichny operator and enable us to systematically investigate the relevant properties. As an operational approach, the variation of the correlation matrix defined makes it more convenient to search for suitable unit vectors that satisfy the tightness conditions. Finally, the results give feasible experimental implementations in detecting the genuine multipartite non-locality and can potentially be applied to other quantum information processing tasks.
The achievement of quantum computational advantage, also known as quantum supremacy, is a major milestone at which a quantum computer can solve a problem significantly faster than the world's most powerful classical computers. Two tasks, boson sampling and random quantum circuit sampling, have experimentally exhibited quantum advantages on photonic and superconducting platforms respectively. Classical benchmarking is essential, yet challenging, because these tasks are intractable for classical computers. This study reviews models, algorithms and large-scale simulations of these two sampling tasks. These approaches continue to hold substantial significance for research in both current noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) systems and future fault-tolerant quantum computing.
We experimentally demonstrate simulation of two entangled quantum bits using classical fields of two frequencies and two polarizations. Multiplication of optical heterodyne beat signals from two spatially separated regions simulates coincidence detection of two particles. The product signal so obtained contains several frequency components, one of which can be selected by bandpass frequency filtering. The bandpassed signal contains two indistinguishable, interfering contributions, permitting simulation of four polarization-entangled Bell-like states. These classical field methods may be useful in small scale simulations of quantum logic operations that require multiparticle entanglement without collapse.
The dichotomy between endophysical/intrinsic and exophysical/extrinsic perception concerns how a model--mathematical, logical, computational---universe is perceived, from inside or from outside. This paper, the first in a proposed series, discusses some limitations and tradeoffs between endophysicalfintrinsic and exophysicaYextrinsic perceptions in both physical and computational contexts. We build our work on E. E Moore's Gedanken-experiments in which the universe is modeled by a finite deterministic automaton. A new type of computational complementarity, which mimics the state of quantum entanglement, is introduced and contrasted with Moore's computational complementarity. Computer simulations of both types of computational complementarity are developed for fourstate Moore automata.
Having a distance measure between quantum states satisfying the right properties is of fundamental importance in all areas of quantum information. In this work, we present a systematic study of the geometric Rényi divergence (GRD), also known as the maximal Rényi divergence, from the point of view of quantum information theory. We show that this divergence, together with its extension to channels, has many appealing structural properties, which are not satisfied by other quantum Rényi divergences. For example we prove a chain rule inequality that immediately implies the "amortization collapse" for the geometric Rényi divergence, addressing an open question by Berta et  al. [Letters in Mathematical Physics 110:2277-2336, 2020, Equation (55)] in the area of quantum channel discrimination. As applications, we explore various channel capacity problems and construct new channel information measures based on the geometric Rényi divergence, sharpening the previously best-known bounds based on the max-relative entropy while still keeping the new bounds single-letter and efficiently computable. A plethora of examples are investigated and the improvements are evident for almost all cases.
In this work, we investigate measurement incompatibility in general probabilistic theories (GPTs). We show several equivalent characterizations of compatible measurements. The first is in terms of the positivity of associated maps. The second relates compatibility to the inclusion of certain generalized spectrahedra. For this, we extend the theory of free spectrahedra to ordered vector spaces. The third characterization connects the compatibility of dichotomic measurements to the ratio of tensor crossnorms of Banach spaces. We use these characterizations to study the amount of incompatibility present in different GPTs, i.e. their compatibility regions. For centrally symmetric GPTs, we show that the compatibility degree is given as the ratio of the injective and the projective norm of the tensor product of associated Banach spaces. This allows us to completely characterize the compatibility regions of several GPTs, and to obtain optimal universal bounds on the compatibility degree in terms of the 1summing constants of the associated Banach spaces. Moreover, we find new bounds on the maximal incompatibility present in more than three qubit measurements.
Every multipartite entangled quantum state becomes fully separable after an entanglement breaking quantum channel acted locally on each of its subsystems. Whether there are other quantum channels with this property has been an open problem with important implications for entanglement theory (e.g., for the distillation problem and the PPT squared conjecture). We cast this problem in the general setting of proper convex cones in finite-dimensional vector spaces. The max-entanglement annihilating maps transform the k-fold maximal tensor product of a cone C 1 into the k-fold minimal tensor product of a cone C 2 , and the pair (C 1 , C 2 ) is called resilient if all max-entanglement annihilating maps are entanglement breaking. Our main result is that (C 1 , C 2 ) is resilient if either C 1 or C 2 is a Lorentz cone. Our proof exploits the symmetries of the Lorentz cones and applies two constructions resembling protocols for entanglement distillation: As a warm-up, we use the multiplication tensors of real composition algebras to construct a finite family of generalized distillation protocols for Lorentz cones, containing the distillation protocol for entangled qubit states by Bennett  et al. (Phys Rev Lett 76(5):722, 1996)  as a special case. Then, we construct an infinite family of protocols using solutions to the Hurwitz matrix equations. After proving these results, we focus on maps between cones of positive semidefinite matrices, where we derive necessary conditions for max-entanglement annihilation similar to the reduction criterion in entanglement distillation. Finally, we apply results from the theory of Banach space tensor norms to show that the Lorentz cones are the only cones with a symmetric base for which a certain stronger version of the resilience property is satisfied.
In 1927, Heisenberg discovered that the "more precisely the position is determined, the less precisely the momentum is known in this instant, and vice versa." Four years later Gödel showed that a finitely specified, consistent formal system which is large enough to include arithmetic is incomplete. As both results express some kind of impossibility it is natural to ask whether there is any relation between them, and, indeed, this question has been repeatedly asked for a long time. The main interest seems to have been in possible implications of incompleteness to physics. In this note we will take interest in the converse implication and will offer a positive answer to the question: Does uncertainty imply incompleteness? We will show that algorithmic randomness is equivalent to a "formal uncertainty principle" which implies Chaitin's informationtheoretic incompleteness. We also show that the derived uncertainty relation, for many computers, is physical. In fact, the formal uncertainty principle applies to all systems governed by the wave equation, not just quantum waves. This fact supports the conjecture that uncertainty implies algorithmic randomness not only in mathematics, but also in physics.
By means of the Weiss-Tabor-Carnevale (WTC) truncation method and the general variable separation approach (GVSA), analytical investigation of the integrable (2 + 1)dimensional higher-order Broer-Kaup (HBK) system shows, due to the possibility of selecting three arbitrary functions, the existence of interacting coherent excitations such as dromions, solitons, periodic solitons, etc. The interaction between some of the localized solutions are elastic because they pass through each other and preserve their shapes and velocities, the only change being the phase shift. However, as for some soliton models, completely non-elastic interactions have been found in this model. These non-elastic interactions are characterized by the fact that, at a specific time, one soliton may fission to two or more solitons; or on the contrary, two or more solitons will fuse to one soliton.
In 1927 Heisenberg discovered that the "more precisely the position is determined, the less precisely the momentum is known in this instant, and vice versa." Four years later Gödel showed that a finitely specified, consistent formal system which is large enough to include arithmetic is incomplete. As both results express some kind of impossibility it is natural to ask whether there is any relation between them, and, indeed, this question has been repeatedly asked for a long time. The main interest seems to have been in possible implications of incompleteness to physics. In this note we will take interest in the converse implication and will offer a positive answer to the question: Does uncertainty imply incompleteness? We will show that algorithmic randomness is equivalent to a "formal uncertainty principle" which implies Chaitin's informationtheoretic incompleteness. We also show that the derived uncertainty relation, for many computers, is physical. In fact, the formal uncertainty principle applies to all systems governed by the wave equation, not just quantum waves. This fact supports the conjecture that uncertainty implies algorithmic randomness not only in mathematics, but also in physics.
The quantization of two Josephson junctions coupled via inductor with the discreteness of electric charges is proposed. The finite-difference Schrodinger equation of the circuit system has been obtained in charge representation, and the Schrodinger equation is turned to be Mathieu equation in flux representation. The wavefunction and energy spectrum can be solved by adopting the canonical transformation and unitary transformation method. The results indicate that the quantum fluctuations of the flux in the ground states of each mesh exist and are interrelated.
A 9 × 9 unitary Ȓ-matrix, solution of the Yang-Baxter Equation, is obtained in this paper. The entanglement properties of Ȓ-matrix is investigated, and the arbitrary degree of entanglement for two-qutrit entangled states can be generated via Ȓ-matrix acting on the standard basis. A Yang-Baxter Hamiltonian can be constructed from unitary Ȓ-matrix. Then the geometric properties of this system is studied. The results showed that the Berry phase of this system can be represented under the framework of SU(2) algebra.
The theory of logical gates in quantum computation has suggested new forms of quantum logic, called quantum computational logics. The basic semantic idea is the following: the meaning of a sentence is identified with a density operator (called qumix). In this framework, any sentence α of the language gives rise to a quantum circuit that transforms the qumix associated to the atomic subformulas of α into the qumix associated to α. In this paper we enrich the language by adding a new connective which expresses truncated sum.
The purpose of the present article is to extend the scope of some investigations about abstract logics arising quite naturally out of Quasi-MV algebras (for short, qMV algebras) also to √ qMV algebras. We will therefore introduce, mutually compare and (in some cases) axiomatise several logics arising out of the variety of √ qMV algebras and out of some important subclasses of such. Subsequently, we will investigate the same logics by resorting to the methods and techniques of abstract algebraic logic.
A scheme for probabilistic teleportation of an unknown three-qubit entangled state via a five-qubit non-maximally entangled cluster state as quantum channel is proposed. In this scheme, the sender performs two Bell state and a single-qubit measurements on the qubits, the receiver can reconstruct the original state with a certain probability by making appropriate unitary transformations and controlled-not (C-not) operations. As a result, the probability of successful teleportation is determined by the smallest two of the coefficients' absolute values of the cluster state. The considerable advantage of our scheme is that we employ a non-maximally entangled cluster state as quantum channel in the scheme, which can greatly reduce the amount of entanglement resources and need less classical bits.
Image steganography technique is widely used to realize the secrecy transmission. Although its strategies on classical computers have been extensively researched, there are few studies on such strategies on quantum computers. Therefore, in this paper, a novel, secure and keyless steganography approach for images on quantum computers is proposed based on Moiré pattern. Algorithms based on the Moiré pattern are proposed for binary image embedding and extraction. Based on the novel enhanced quantum representation of digital images (NEQR), recursive and progressively layered quantum circuits for embedding and extraction operations are designed. In the end, experiments are done to verify the validity and robustness of proposed methods, which confirms that the approach in this paper is effective in quantum image steganography strategy.
A scheme of probabilistic teleportation was proposed. In this scheme, we took a six-qubit nonmaximally cluster state as the quantum channel to teleport an unknown threequbit entangled state. Based on Bob's three times Bell state measurement (BSM) results, the receiver Bob can by introducing an auxiliary particle and the appropriate transformation to reconstruct the initial state with a certain probability. We found that, the successful transmission probability depend on the absolute value of coefficients of two of six particle cluster state minimum.
Recent studies on quantum Fisher information (QFI) have been focused mostly on qubit systems within the context of how entanglement helps surpassing the classical limit of separable states and the limit that a given entangled system can achieve for parameter estimation. However, there are only a few works on bound entangled systems. In this work, we study the QFI of a system of the smallest dimension that bound entanglement can be observed: A bipartite quantum system of two particles of three-levels each. An interesting property of this state is that depending only on a parameter, the state can be separable, bound entangled or free entangled. We show that QFI exhibits a smooth and continues increase with respect to this parameter throughout the transition from separable to bound entangled and from bound entangled to free entangled regions. We show that in any region, this state is not useful for sub-shot noise interferometry. We also relate the QFI of this state with its geometric discord and show how these two properties exhibit a similar behavior throughout this transition.
We study the quantum correlation dynamics of bipartite spin-1 2 density matrices for two particles under Wigner rotations induced by Lorentz transformations which is transmitted through noisy channels. We compare quantum entanglement, geometric discord(GD), and quantum discord (QD) for bipartite relativistic spin-1 2 states under noisy channels. We find out QD and GD tend to death asymptotically but a sudden change in the decay rate of the entanglement occurs under noisy channels. Also, bipartite relativistic spin density matrices are considered as a quantum channel for teleportation one-qubit state under the influence of depolarizing noise and compare fidelity for various velocities of observers.
The paradigm has opened for the first time the possibility of avoiding physical primitives in the axioms of the physical theory, allowing a re-foundation of the whole physics over logically solid grounds. In addition to such methodological value, the new information-theoretic derivation of quantum field theory is particularly interesting for establishing a theoretical framework for quantum gravity, with the idea of obtaining gravity itself as emergent from the quantum information processing, as also suggested by the role played by information in the holographic principle (Susskind, J. Math. Phys. 36
In this paper, we investigate the four-qubit spin-1 2 XXZ Heisenberg chain with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction by topological basis method, and research the relationship between the topological basis states and the ground states. In order to study the Hamiltonian system beyond XXZ model, we introduce two Temperley-Lieb algebra generators and two other generalized generators. Then we investigate the relationship between topological basis and Heisenberg XXZ model with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction. The results show that the ground state of this model falls on the topological basis state for anti-ferromagnetic case and gapless phase case.
In this paper we present a protocol to perform the task of a bilateral exchange of entanglements between two parties in the case where one of the parties holds a three particle entangled state where the other party holds a two particle entangled state. The protocol is supervised by a controller. The quantum channel used here is a nine particle entangled state. The speciality of the protocol is that in all the involved measurements only a fraction of the possible measurement outcomes appear which substantially simplifies the protocol. Our scheme is a perfect teleportation scheme, that is, the mutual transfer of entangled states is performed with certainty.
Correlations between subsystems of a composite quantum system include Bell nonlocality, steerability, entanglement and quantum discord. Bell nonlocality of a bipartite state is one of important quantum correlations demonstrated by some local quantum measurements. In this paper, we discuss nonlocality of a multipartite quantum system. The -locality and -nonlocality of multipartite states are firstly introduced, some related properties are discussed. Some related nonlocality inequalities are established for {1, 2; 3}-local, {1; 2, 3}-local, and -local states, respectively. The violation of one of these inequalities gives a sufficient condition for -nonlocal states. As application, genuinely nonlocality of a tripartite state is checked. Finally, a class of 2-separable nonlocal states are given, which shows that a 2-separable tripartite state is not necessarily local.
In this paper, we construct a new set of orthonormal topological basis states for six qubits with the topological single loop d = 2. By acting on the subspace, we get a new five-dimensional (5D) reduced matrix. In addition, it is shown that the Heisenberg XXX spin-1 2 chain of six qubits can be constructed from the Temperley-Lieb algebra (TLA) generator, both the energy ground state and the spin singlet states of the system can be described by the set of topological basis states.
We propose a way for implementing a two-step N √ iSWAP and N √ SWAP gates based on the qubit-qubit interaction with N superconducting qubits, by coupling them to a resonator driven by a strong microwave field. The operation times do not increase with the growth of the qubit number. Due to the virtual excitations of the resonator, the scheme is insensitive to the decay of the resonator. Numerical analysis shows that the scheme can be implemented with high fidelity. Moreover, we propose a detailed procedure and analyze the experimental feasibility. So, our proposal can be experimentally realized in the range of current circuit QED techniques.
We work out a quantum-theoretic model in complex Hilbert space of a recently performed test on co-occurrencies of two concepts and their combination in retrieval processes on specific corpuses of documents. The test violated the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt version of Bell's inequalities ('CHSH inequality'), thus indicating the presence of entanglement between the combined concepts. We make use of a recently elaborated 'entanglement scheme' and represent the collected data in the tensor product of Hilbert spaces of the individual concepts, showing that the identified violation is due to the presence of a strong form of entanglement, involving both states and measurements and reflecting the meaning connection between the component concepts. These results provide a significant confirmation of the presence of quantum structures in corpuses of documents, like it is the case for the entanglement identified in human cognition.
Increasing knowledge of factors that promote health among youth from diverse backgrounds is an important step towards addressing health disparities. Although many promotive factors have been identified individually, there is an overabundance of research on risk factors, and a comparable dearth of knowledge regarding the influence of combinations of promotive factors. The current study examined how promotive factors across family, school, and community contexts co-occur to promote health among youth of different race/ethnicity. Utilizing a nationally representative sample of Black (10%), Latinx (12%), and White (77%) youth ages 12-17 (N = 30,668), latent class analysis was employed to identify classes of youth who endorsed homogenous patterns of promotive factors. Associations between class membership and health were explored. Each subsample was best characterized by its own 4-class model, with significant differences in patterns of promotive factors experienced by Black, Latinx, and White youth. Youth health outcomes also varied significantly by class membership (p < .05). Greater access to more promotive factors was associated with better health, and low access to community and school promotive factors was associated with worse health. Results suggest that increasing promotive factors in school, family, and community settings may help to prevent poor health outcomes; however, jointly addressing discrimination against racial/ethnic minority youth through education, policy, and practice is also needed to address health disparities.
Conclusion: This study reveals an association of lobectomy with more systematic and complete lymph node dissection, such as BML or SND, with better prognosis in stage I NSCLC patients.
Reversible logic has become one of the most suitable techniques in low power design because of its zero power dissipation property. Extensive research is underway to construct efficient reversible logic gates and reversible circuits such as adders, multipliers and dividers because of its wide applications in optical information processing, nanotechnology, DNA computing and quantum computation fields. In this paper, first a 4 × 4 reversible gate TKG is presented which has low quantum cost followed by the design of a 4-bit reversible multiplier. This multiplier design utilizes the proposed TKG to generate partial products and duplication of original bits, which not only eliminates the need of fan-out generation circuit but also reduces the delay of the circuit. Extensive comparisons of the proposed gate and multiplier are drawn with existing counter parts in the literature and it is envisaged that the proposed designs are efficient and also there is a significant improvement and reduction in the quantum cost of the circuit along with the delay due to the use of TKG Gate.
Reversible logic function classification plays an important role in reversible logic synthesis. This paper studies the calculation of the number of the equivalence classes for reversible logic functions. In order to do this work, an n-qubit reversible function is expressed as a permutation in the symmetric group S 2 n , so that a universal formula for calculating the number of equivalence classes of reversible logic functions is derived based on group theory. Based on the calculation method of the number of conjugacy classes of permutation groups, an improved method for calculating the number of equivalence classes of reversible logic functions is obtained. In the experiments with GAP software on a laptop, we can compute the NPNP-equivalence classes for up to 13 qubits, LL-equivalence classes for up to 10 qubits and AA-equivalence classes for up to 10 qubits. Experiment results indicate that our scheme for calculating these equivalence classes of more than 6 qubits over previous published methods is a significant advancement.
Most of the work involving entanglement measurement focuses on systems that can be modeled by two interacting qubits. This is due to the fact that there are few studies presenting entanglement analytical calculations in systems with spins s > 1/2. In this paper, we present for the first time an analytical way of calculating thermal entanglement in a dimension 2 ⊗ 3 Heisenberg chain through the distance between states. We use the Hilbert-Schmidt norm to obtain entanglement. The result obtained can be used to calculate entanglement in chains with spin-1/2 coupling with spin-1, such as ferrimagnetic compounds as well as compounds with dimer-trimer coupling.
proposed a scheme for bidirectional quantum teleportation of two↔two and two↔three qubit states by utilizing a six-qubit entangled state as a quantum channel. It is observed that the intrinsic efficiency calculated by Zhou et al. is not correct. In this improved scheme, we show that bidirectional teleportation of two↔two and two↔three qubit quantum states can be done by using optimized quantum resource and less consumption of classical resource. We also calculate the intrinsic efficiency of our improved scheme which is much better than the Zhou's scheme. Additionally, we also discuss about the security of the protocol.
In this paper we present a bi-directional protocol for mutual remote preparation of a two and a four-qubit non-maximally entangled state where the parties intending to remotely prepare the respective states are not initially entangled. There is a controller of the protocol who oversees the performances of other parties and acts to signal for the execution of the final step in the protocol. There is a Mentor whose action creates entanglement between the rest of the parties and also determines one of the several possible courses of the communication scheme. After that the Mentor quits. The effect of three different noises, namely, Bit-flip, Phase-flip and Amplitude-damping noises are analyzed using the Kraus operator on the otherwise perfect protocol. The decreased fidelity in the presence of noise is numerically studied with respect to noise and other parameters. It is found that in all the three cases the fidelity tends to one as the noise parameter tends to zero.
Quantum key distribution (QKD) could be the most significant application of quantum information theory. In nearly four decades, although substantial QKD protocols are developed, the BB84 protocol and its variants are still the most researched ones. It is well-known that the secure bound of qubit error rate (QBER) of BB84 protocol is about 11% while it can be increased to 12.6% by six-state protocol. It would not be surprising that employing more basis could increase the bound. However, what is the optimal protocol, and how to analyze it? In this paper, investigations of asymptotically optimal QKD protocols are proposed. Precisely, We present an abstraction of prepare-measure QKD protocols and investigate two special cases which are optimal among all protocols coding by the same states. Our analysis demonstrates that the asymptotically optimal QBER bounds coding by orthogonal qubits are about 27.28% for both memory C-NOT attacks and memoryless C-NOT attacks while the bounds coding by non-orthogonal states in two mutually unbiased bases are about 22.73% for memory and 28.69% for memoryless C-NOT attacks. The protocols are idealized but might be asymptotically realized while their optimality indicates the ultimate potential of QKD protocols. Although the analysis only contains a special kind of attack, it provides a framework for investigating such protocols.
Nonlinear Schrodinger equation (NLSE) is now one of the prominent of modern physics, mathematics and chemistry. Over these fields, the NLSE is also applied in new emerging fields such as quantum information and econophysics. In this paper we investigate for new exact solutions of higher order nonlinear Schrodinger's equation. This method allows to carry out the solution process of nonlinear wave equations more thoroughly and conveniently by computer algebra systems such as the Maple and Mathematica. In addition to providing a different way of solving the Schrodinger equation for such systems, the simplicity of the algorithm renders it a great pedagogical value.
We considered the two-qubit Heisenberg XXZ spin chain in the presence of Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya and Kaplan-Shekhtman-Entin-Wohlman-Aharony interactions in thermal equilibrium. As discord-type quantifiers of thermal non-classical correlations, we used trace distance discord and local quantum uncertainty. Depending on the thermal state of the system considered, the explicit analytical expressions of the suggested quantifiers are derived and their behaviors with respect to the various parameters of the system are examined. The results obtained showed that the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya and Kaplan-Shekhtman-Entin-Wohlman-Aharony interactions considerably improve the quantum correlations contained in the bipartite system while the temperature tends to decrease their quantity.
We investigate quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty, mixedness, and entanglement dynamics in a system of two qubits initially prepared in a separable state interacting with a coherent cavity based on the intrinsic decoherence model. When the coherencebased cavity is assumed in two different situations, namely, coherent and even coherent state, we primarily focus on the suppression of entropic uncertainty, mixedness, and entanglement generation. We show that intrinsic decoherence effects greatly control the dynamical perspectives of entropic uncertainty, mixedness, and entanglement. The functions of entropic uncertainty, mixedness, and entanglement either show signs of oscillatory behavior or reach saturation levels depending upon the intrinsic decoherence and coherent cavity strengths. Besides, the entanglement enhancement becomes more likely to emerge when the two qubits are exposed to an even coherent state cavity than when a coherent state cavity is implemented. In addition, due to the intrinsic decoherence effects, two-qubit mixedness and the lower bound of the entropic uncertainty functions exhibit symmetrical dynamics. The physical relationship between entropic uncertainty and mixedness is in an anti-correlation with entanglement. It is noticeable that due to the efficient action of the coherence-based cavity, the generated two-qubit entanglement is never completely lost.
Rapid growth is also being seen in the deployment of optical network equipment and the development of new network services for next-generation networks beyond 5G and 6G. Sybil attacks, wormhole assaults, and single-point failure are just some of the security threats that may affect optical networks. With the introduction of new B5G applications, the conventional setup is no longer enough to meet the need of real-time automatic configuration. A new automated setup approach for the underlying optical transport network is desired by operators. This research proposes a novel method for analysing the security and routing of radio optical networks by bringing together blockchain machine learning and quantum computing. Here, the security of the radio optical network is improved by using cryptanalysis through a federated blockchain model, and the routing is handled by means of sparse Fourier Q-adversarial Boltzmann neural networks. This research tackles a number of issues plaguing optical networks and proposes a strategy for protecting networks from intruders by using quantum-secured blockchain in these environments. Quality of service, data integrity, throughput, latency, packet delivery ratio, and end-to-end delay are all measured experimentally across a range of network security datasets. The proposed method achieved a 72% Quality of Service, 68% Data Integrity, 98% Throughput, 56% Latency, a 96% Packet Delivery Ratio, and a 49% End-to-End Delay.
Radio access networks (RANs) provide for more user coverage, greater data speeds, and enhanced end-to-end performance with reduced latency, power consumption, and cost. Supporting high-performance applications in the 5G sector that need widespread user coverage and real-time cloud computing is possible with a cloud radio access network (C-RAN). The rise in mobile internet users has rendered resource optimisation and scheduling impractical in traditional designs, making it unable to guarantee a good level of service. This study presented a novel method for optimising the routing and traffic in radio optical networks, based on the architecture of 5G communications. Experimental results have been gathered for a wide range of network properties, including spectral efficiency, latency, quality of service, resource utilisation, and network cost. In this case, the proposed method achieved a Network cost of 48%, current MDRI 45%, and SDN 46%; for the number of modulations, a Network cost of 55%, existing MDRI 51%, and SDN 53%; and for the number of samples, the suggested method achieved a Network cost of 59%, existing MDRI 52%, and SDN 55%.
Data and information secrecy during storage or transmission has been preserved through the use of cryptography. Consequently, cryptography studies have also progressed from traditional Caesar cipher to the existing cryptographic protocols depending on quantum computing, starting with the latest modular arithmetic-based cryptosystems. The strength of modular arithmetic ciphers lies in the fact that they are computationally difficult to break, but with the advent of quantum computing, even these issues can be cracked with in polynomial time. Research on post-quantum cryptography began in response to this danger, with the goal of creating post-quantum algorithms that are immune to quantum computing. However, cryptographic methods confront a number of other problems, including, but not limited to, availability, integrity, and vulnerability. Despite the researchers' successes, security is still a major issue for Quantum Computing. Because of its many advantages, cyberspace has quickly become the most common medium for disseminating information. Because of the exponential growth of science and technology, notably quantum computers, cyber security is now the top priority for the Internet and other wireless systems. The fundamental goal of this work is to create a Hybrid Quantum Cryptosystem that can be implemented in Wireless Body Sensor Networks. Using a series of comparisons with existing algorithms, we will determine how well our suggested hybrid algorithm operates in terms of key length, key generation time, decryption and encryption timings, and overall speed. The proposed approach attains 10.3 minimal rate of error, which outperforms the existing state-of-art techniques.
Artificial intelligence (AI) has quickly integrated into contemporary healthcare organizations, providing a variety of purposes, including identifying diseases, individualized therapy suggestions, and healthcare picture analytics. However, substantial security concerns are raised by the extensive use of AI in Healthcare, particularly regarding the reliability and confidentiality of private patient information. In this paper, we offer quantum photonic convolutional neural network (QP-CNN) to strengthen AI-based healthcare systems' security to overcome this crucial issue. To create an innovative convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture capable of handling the quantum computations that can endanger the safety of patient data, we analyze the special aspects of quantum photonics in this study. We explore the basic ideas behind quantum photonic computation and show how they can be used to develop strong cryptography methods for securing healthcare information during transport and preservation. Initially, we gather the dataset and preprocess the collected data using min-max normalization to remove duplicates and guarantee homogeneity. The subsequent stage involves utilizing principal component analysis (PCA) to extract pertinent features from the preprocessed data. We simulate trials with Python 3.11 software to assess the efficiency of the suggested algorithm. In terms of accuracy (82.67%), precision (82%), recall (75.84%), and F1-score (85%), specificity (95.67%), AUC (93.15%). Our results show that the QP-CNN technique outperforms other methods in effectiveness. Our suggested QP-CNN technique provides exciting outcomes for the security of an artificial intelligence-based healthcare system.
Digital signal processing (DSP) is used in computer processing to conduct different signal-processing tasks. The DSPs are used in the series numbers representing a continuous variable in a domain such as time, area, or frequency. The multiply-accumulate (MAC) unit is crucial in various DSP applications, including convolution, discrete cosine transform (DCT), Fourier Transform, etc. Thus, all DSPs contain a critical MAC unit in signal processing. The MAC unit conducts multiplication and accumulation operations for continuous and complicated DSP application processes. On the other hand, in the MAC structure, the stability of the circuit and the occupied area pose some significant challenges. However, high-performance quantum technology can easily overcome all the previous shortcomings. Hence, this paper suggests an efficient MAC for DSP applications using a Vedic multiplier, half adder, and accumulator based on quantum technology. All the proposed structures have used a single-layer layout without rotated cells. The suggested architecture is designed and validated based on the QCADesigner 2.0.3 tool. The findings revealed that all the developed circuits have a simple architecture with fewer quantum cells, optimal area, and low latency.
In recent years, AI and quantum technologies have received a great deal of interest from a wide range of fields. This research introduces a novel methodology for creating AI systems that are both interpretable and clever, making them ideal for use in safe, trustworthy healthcare environments. In order to handle and analyse large healthcare datasets while maintaining privacy and security, our technology employs quantum optical neural networks (QONN). We place a premium on gathering useful healthcare data while strictly protecting individual privacy. The collected data undergoes meticulous cleaning and preprocessing, including normalization procedures to eliminate noise, outliers, and irrelevant information. The core of our approach involves the construction of a neural network utilizing both optical and quantum computing techniques. Key components of QONNs comprise qubits, optical elements, and conventional neural network layers. The training of the QONN is executed using pre-evaluated healthcare data, optimizing its performance through advanced techniques such as Improved Genetic Algorithms (IGA). Furthermore, we establish an AI system that employs explicit skill-based approaches. To achieve this, interpretability algorithms, saliency maps, and attention mechanisms may be essential tools. A critical aspect of this study involves a comprehensive evaluation of the AI system's performance. This evaluation includes soliciting feedback from qualified medical experts and implementing necessary enhancements and adjustments to augment its functionality and rectify any shortcomings. To assess the effectiveness of the constructed AI system, we conduct an analysis of pertinent metrics. We compare the system's results with those obtained using various healthcare analytics methods to ascertain its efficacy. This rigorous evaluation ensures that the AI system is not only functional but also a valuable asset in the realm of healthcare analytics and decision-making.
In pursuit of the "Dual Carbon Goals" and to mitigate the adverse effects of "power supply restrictions," a microgrid scheme integrating wind and solar power with hydrogen energy storage is proposed. This paper introduces the principles of system capacity configuration and establishes a mathematical model. This research offers a novel method for configuring wind and solar hydrogen storage systems called quantum-enhanced multi-objective collaboration. This work intends to address the complicated issues of achieving effective energy storage, reducing prices, and maximising renewable energy utilisation by leveraging the capabilities of quantum computing. A multi-objective capacity optimization configuration model for wind-solar-hydrogen energy storage is developed using Homer Pro software and an enhanced BAS-GA algorithm. Under off-grid operating conditions, the wind-solar-hydrogen energy storage system's capacity optimization configuration model is validated through practical examples. The results indicate that, in comparison to wind storage, solar storage, wind-solar storage, and wind-solar-diesel storage systems, the net present value and levelized cost of electricity of the wind-solar-hydrogen energy storage system decrease to 14.25 million RMB and 1.529 RMB/(kW h), respectively. The renewable energy utilization rate increases to 98.7%, and the load shedding rate decreases to 5.50%.
With the rapid development of information technology, the amount of information in all walks of life has also increased sharply, and the information that people face is heterogeneous, large-scale and dynamic. This is an urgent problem to be solved in the research of data mining system based on heterogeneous cellular network algorithm, and it is also the focus of academic attention. At present, entrepreneurship has become an important way for college students to find employment. However, the risks and challenges of entrepreneurship are also increasing, so it is necessary to find an innovative way to solve these problems. This paper aims to explore the application of quantum computing based on heterogeneous cellular network algorithm in college students' entrepreneurial management, in order to provide a new solution. This paper studies the basic principle of heterogeneous cellular network algorithm and quantum computing, and puts forward the method of applying these two technologies to college students' entrepreneurial management. By using heterogeneous cellular network algorithms to manage the flow of information during the startup process, and using quantum computing to optimize the decision-making process. After experiment and analysis, this method can improve the accuracy and efficiency of entrepreneurial decision-making, while reducing risks and challenges, with high feasibility and practicability, and can help college students better cope with the challenges in the process of entrepreneurship and achieve better results.
This paper explores the transformative fusion of Quantum computing, Artificial Intelligence (AI), the Internet of Things (IoT), and advanced optical systems within smart city development. A significant innovation within this study is the concept of "optical IoT," wherein IoT relies on advanced optical technologies, including high-resolution cameras, LiDAR scanners, meters, sensors, and wearables, strategically distributed throughout urban environments for real-time image data acquisition. Traditional smart city models may rely on conventional data acquisition methods that are not real-time or high-resolution, leading to delayed and less accurate urban management decisions. Existing models might use disparate systems for monitoring and management, which can result in inefficient resource allocation and coordination, especially in critical situations like emergency response. In this research Advanced Smart City Architecture (ASCA) this integration empowers the system to excel in tasks such as semantic segmentation, enabling precise identification and categorization of urban elements. Quantum optical systems are employed in quantumenhanced sensors, such as quantum-enhanced interferometers and atomic clocks. These sensors offer improved precision for measurements like distance, time, and acceleration. The ASCA approach equips city planners, administrators, and emergency responders with real-time urban monitoring and management capabilities. This dynamic system yields numerous advantages, including optimized resource allocation, enhanced traffic management, improved environmental quality, and swift emergency response capabilities. This research underscores the immense potential of ASCA in reshaping urban development and sustainability within smart cities. By harmonizing AI, IoT, and advanced optical systems, this paradigm shift enables smart cities to evolve into more efficient and resilient urban environments. These cities become finely attuned to the ever-evolving needs of their residents, ultimately fostering innovation and progress at an unprecedented scale. Proposed ASCA achieves an impressive 91.98% enhancement in sustainable smart city development when compared to these existing techniques.
This research presents a comprehensive investigation into the electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) analysis of rail vehicle speed sensors. It begins by establishing rigorous EMC testing standards for radio field speed sensors used in railway vehicles, encompassing parameters such as antenna orientation, interference strength, frequency range, and signal stability. Additionally, the study explores the theoretical underpinnings of radio frequency (RF) emissions, emphasizing the importance of loop size in PCBs with transmission lines and the complexities involved in estimating field strength. Notably, the research introduces the integration of quantum-based 3D reconstruction algorithms into EMC analysis, enabling a more accurate representation of the electromagnetic environment surrounding rail vehicles. Furthermore, an optimization algorithm based on chaos theory and neural networks is proposed, offering a promising approach to fine-tune sensor design for enhanced EMC compliance. Through experiments and tests, the study demonstrates the significant impact of optimization and quantum-enhanced 3D reconstruction on the EMC of rail vehicle speed sensors, resulting in reduced RF radiation and improved electromagnetic compatibility. This research contributes to the advancement of EMC analysis in the railway industry, ensuring the safety and performance of critical components.
In this day and age, there has been a discernible focus on and significant usage of Quantum machine learning (QML) models with the intention of predicting the toxicity of inconsequential compounds. The application of computational toxicity prediction provides considerable advantages in the early phases of pharmaceutical research. These benefits include the identification and removal of compounds that are likely to display poor effectiveness when tested in clinical trials. This trend has been easier to observe with the introduction of extensive toxicity databases. As a result of the fact that this field is still in its infancy, it is essential to acquire a more all-encompassing grasp of the range of QAI approaches and the contexts in which they might be used. Trials to harmonize principles from quantum mechanics, Quantum Machine learning algorithms with classical ML techniques, which leads towards enhancing the interpretability has been performed. In an attempt to achieve robust accuracy associated with the QML model, reach out of enriching insights from naïve Bayesian classification and recursive partitioning, through the merge of sophisticated computational techniques with complex biological phenomenon has been done, the present study not only moves towards enhancing the repertoire of tools available for early stage enhanced drug discovery & optimization but also moves towards revolutionary possibilities of quantum-infused methods in tackling persistent issues in the field of bioinformatics and toxicology.
Parallel developments in the realms of AI and quantum technology have shown a great deal of promise for mutual benefit. Combining them refers to using AI methods to create quantum computing (QC) and quantum physics algorithms as well as using QC to improve AI applications. QC has the power to revolutionise a number of industries. One of the biggest barriers preventing the broad application of QC is the famously challenging nature of controlling quantum systems. AI has made it possible to automate quantum system control in novel ways. In particular, the use of AI in conjunction with the Internet of Things (IoT) can potentially ease problems that have historically been connected to QC and quantum communication while revealing invaluable insight into the intricate and multifaceted field of quantum physics. However, QC may also be applied to improve AI applications. This study tries to examine how these technologies are used in the judicial system and how they affect courtroom behaviour. Accelerators are necessary for the quick and efficient execution of artificial intelligence activities across a variety of applications. Despite a half-century of study, general-purpose optical computing methods still haven't developed into a workable technology. However, optical computing methods may be able to address certain domain-specific demands. The focus of the article is on how these technologies may increase the efficacy and efficiency of law enforcement and the legal system, rather than providing a thorough examination of the legal system.
The Q-learning approach, within deep reinforcement learning (DRL) methodology, is beneficial in multifarious tasks, one of them including enhancement of navigational tasks, shown by the DQN approach; merging Q-learning with deep neural networks is not without its challenges, particularly in situations where there is a chance of overestimating the correct value. In order to address the problems described above in the realm of electric and hybrid vehicles (EHVs), a quantum-computational adaptation that is influenced by Double Q-learning as a potential solution is proposed i.e., QED2Q-N. The enhanced version increases the efficacy of navigation by addressing the overestimates, which were included in previous editions, conceived with the intention of approximately modeling functions on a broad scale. The expansion of electric and hybrid vehicles (EHVs) toward growing autonomy, along with improvements in intelligent transportation systems (ITS), pose significant cybersecurity threats in the disciplines of vehicle automation and cooperative ITS. These underlying dangers may be found in the sectors of vehicle automation and cooperative ITS with an emphasis on the ways in which quantum-enhanced systems may assist in strengthening defenses, the use of quantum computing and deep reinforcement learning (DRL) merged together, works to bring improvement in EHV navigation accuracy and the enhancement of overall system security. The study underlines the relevance of adopting a quantum-computing technique in order to properly solve the dynamic issues associated with EHV technology.
This paper introduces the Hybrid Quantum Deep Neural Network (HQDNN), a pioneering model that amalgamates classical Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture with Parameterized Quantum Circuits (PmQC) for image classification tasks. The background elucidates the intricacies of CNN and PmQC operations, emphasizing their respective components and functions. HQDNN comprises quantum convolutional and pooling layers alongside a classical fully connected layer, demonstrating its effectiveness through simulations on the MNIST dataset. Results reveal HQDNN's superior learning ability and classification performance compared to traditional CNN, particularly with the inclusion of a pooling layer. This work contributes to the evolution of quantum machine learning, opening avenues for the practical integration of quantum computing in image classification workflows. Future research may explore scalability and diverse applications of HQDNN, marking a promising convergence of quantum computing and deep learning methodologies.
This research introduces quantum adaptive machine learning (QAML) as an innovative solution to enhance the processing efficiency of machine learning in medical image classification, focusing on the diagnosis of brain tumors. QAML leverages quantum algorithms to address challenges associated with large and high-dimensional medical images, offering advantages such as accelerated processing rates, reduced model complexity with heightened accuracy, enhanced precision in handling intricate data relationships, and increased resistance to noise-critical in medical image analysis. The study details the implementation of QAML through a hybrid quantum-classical neural network, employing parameterized quantum circuits for image processing. Comparative experiments with traditional machine learning models demonstrate QAML's faster convergence and comparable accuracy. The research also explores the impact of adaptive optimization strategies on QAML performance, indicating promising results. Overall, QAML, with its quantum convolutional and pooling layers, emerges as a promising and efficient solution for medical image classification, marking significant progress in the integration of quantum-enhanced machine learning in healthcare applications.
Protein structure expectation is a particularly mind boggling issue that it is frequently assaulted and disintegrated using four distinct levels and they are: 1-D forecast of underlying highlights along the essential succession of amino acids sequences, 2-D forecast of spatial connections between the sequence of amino acids, 3-D forecast of a tertiary structure of protein and quaternary structure of protein. This paper also try to introduce some assessment tools for finding the accuracy of result from applying ML and DL tools. And try to analyses and compare various algorithms based on deep learning methods verses machine learning methods used for sequence prediction. This paper also examines the turn of events and utilization of concealed Markov model, uphold vector machines, Bayesian techniques, and grouping strategies. This investigation will be helpful in creating future strategies to improve the exactness of protein auxiliary structure expectation. In this paper, also introduce and summarize the problem of quantum essential elements of: (1) Variational auto-encoder (2) GAN, generative adversarial network (3) RNN, recurrent neural (4) CNN, convolutional neural networks protein structure prediction. Later on also summarizes the evolution of predictive algorithms for 1-4D structure of protein from Amino Acid Sequences and summarize the deep learning ideas to prediction of structure of protein and learned algorithms of the last decade.
This study introduces QMNN, a quantum mesh neural network model incorporating a Quantum Neural Network Expectation (QNNE) circuit, and evaluates its performance on MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets. QMNN employs innovative quantum mesh architecture with increased random layers, while the QNNE circuit, inspired by Circuit 15, integrates extra Hadamard gates for enhanced feature extraction. Implemented using PennyLane libraries, the model demonstrates superior accuracy in training and testing on both datasets compared to classical neural networks, emphasizing its effectiveness in image classification. While classic methods like CNNs may achieve higher accuracy, the significance lies in QMNN's ability, along with the QNNE circuit, to improve accuracy without introducing additional optimization parameters. The observed quantum advantage suggests that strong entanglement between qubits may enhance pixel correlations, highlighting the potential of quantum-inspired models in advancing image diagnostics. Conclusively, this study provides a stepping stone for further research into the synergy between quantum computing and neural networks, showcasing the promising role of QMNN in augmenting image classification accuracy. The results indicate notable improvements, with MNIST testing accuracy reaching 92.80% and CIFAR-10 testing accuracy achieving 36.90%, demonstrating the efficacy of the proposed model.
The potential of spin-based quantum devices in quantum information processing (QIP) is continuously expanding. Recent models with off-diagonal couplings offer new opportunities to explore quantum phenomena in condensed matter. Non-classical correlations (NCCs), quantum coherence (QC) based on Jensen-Shannon divergence (JSD), the entropic uncertainty relation (EUR), and mixedness are crucial concepts in QIP. Understanding their dynamics in condensed matter systems has practical implications for QIP. In this regard, we explore the influence of temperature, off-diagonal exchange couplings, and the magnetic field on the NCCs, QC, EUR, and mixedness of a two-qubit XY -Γ spin chain in thermal equilibrium. We find that NCCs exhibit sudden transitions with a smooth change in the system parameters, whereas QC does not. The off-diagonal exchange couplings significantly enhance both NCCs and QC in the system, while the temperature and the transverse field tend to counteract this enhancement. As the temperature increases, the EUR expands, and mixedness increases. The EUR reaches its peak when mixedness is at its highest. The off-diagonal interaction reduces entropic uncertainty, and increasing its amplitude Γ offsets the adverse effects of temperature and the magnetic field. Besides, we propose a comprehensive and effective strategy using the filtering operation to manipulate measurement uncertainty. Although the local non-unitary operation is selectively applied to qubit A, it immediately affects the memory qubit B, limiting the transfer of information from qubit A to qubit B in quantum communication protocols. However, by properly controlling the two-qubit XY -Γ system parameters and fine-tuning the strength of the filter- ing operation parameter, it is possible to reduce measurement uncertainty and facilitate the transfer of information from qubit A to qubit B.
A lattice-based quantum algorithm is presented to model the non-linear Schrödinger-like equations in 2 + 1 dimensions. In this lattice-based model, using only 2 qubits per node, a sequence of unitary collide (qubit-qubit interaction) and stream (qubit translation) operators locally evolve a discrete field of probability amplitudes that in the long-wavelength limit accurately approximates a non-relativistic scalar wave function. The collision operator locally entangles pairs of qubits followed by a streaming operator that spreads the entanglement throughout the two dimensional lattice. The quantum algorithmic scheme employs a non-linear potential that is proportional to the moduli square of the wave function. The model is tested on the transverse modulation instability of a one dimensional soliton wave train, both in its linear and non-linear stages. In the integrable cases where analytical solutions are available, the numerical predictions are in excellent agreement with the theory.
We consider two-qubit operators and provide a correspondence between their Schmidt number and controlled-NOT (CNOT) complexity, where the CNOT complexity is up to local unitary operations. The results are obtained by complementary means, and a number of examples are given.
A M-matrix which satisfies the Hecke algebraic relations is presented. Via the Yang-Baxterization approach, we obtain a unitary solution Ȓ(θ, ϕ 1 , ϕ 2 ) of Yang-Baxter equation. It is shown that any pure two-qutrit entangled states can be generated via the universal Ȓ-matrix assisted by local unitary transformations. A Hamiltonian is constructed from the Ȓ-matrix, and Berry phase of the Yang-Baxter system is investigated. Specifically, for ϕ 1 = ϕ 2 , the Hamiltonian can be represented based on three sets of SU(2) operators, and three oscillator Hamiltonians can be obtained. Under this framework, the Berry phase can be interpreted.
We point out that the main results-the analytic expressions for the Groverian measure of entanglement, in the above mentioned paper are erroneous. The technical mistake of the paper is discussed. It is shown by an explicit example that the formula for calculating the Groverian measure yields G(|ψ ) = 0 for some entangled states.
In this paper, a 8 × 8 unitary Yang-Baxter matrix Ȓ123 (θ 1 , θ 2 , φ) acting on the triple tensor product space, which is a solution of the Yang-Baxter Equation for three qubits, is presented. Then quantum entanglement and the Berry phase of the Yang-Baxter system are studied. The Yangian generators, which can be viewed as the shift operators, are investigated in detail. And it is worth mentioning that the Yangian operators we constructed are independent of choice of basis.
We present a method to construct "X" form unitary Yang-Baxter Ȓ matrices, which act on the tensor product space V
In this paper, we investigate generalized remote information concentration as the reverse process of ancilla-free phase-covariant telecloning (AFPCT) which is different from the reverse process of optimal universal telecloning. It is shown that the quantum information via 1 → 2 AEPCT procedure can be remotely concentrated back to a single qubit with a certain probability by utilizing (non-)maximally entangled W states as quantum channels. Our protocols are the generalization of Wang's scheme (Open J Microphys 3:18-21. doi:10
Based on the one-and two-qubit gates defined and generated via superconducting transmon qubits homogeneously coupled to a superconducting stripline resonator, we present a new physical protocol for implementing an N -bit discrete quantum Fourier transform. We propose and illustrate a detailed experimental feasibility for realizing the algorithm. The average fidelity is computed to prove the success of this algorithm. Estimated time for implementing the protocol using the proposed scheme is compared with previous schemes. Estimates show that the protocol can be successfully implemented within the present experimental limits.
In this paper, the dynamics evolution of multipartite entanglement for each qubit interacting with a local decoherence channel, such as phase damping, phase flip, bit flip and bit-phase flip channel, is investigated. It is shown that the initial concurrence monotonously decreases much faster with the number of qubit increases and there exists entanglement sudden death (ESD) only for the bit flip channel and bit-phase flip channels. Meanwhile, the time of ESD decreases with the increases of the number of qubit in the multipartite system.
In this paper, we propose an effective scheme for generation of N -dimension atomic Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states with the controlled phase flip gates. The successful probability of our scheme is 100 % in principle. The scheme is implemented with simple linear optical elements, delay lines and polarization-independent circulators. We discuss the feasibility of the setups, concluding that the scheme is feasible with current technology.
Two schemes via different entangled resources as the quantum channel are proposed to realize remote preparation of an arbitrary four-particle χ -state with high success probabilities. To design these protocols, some useful and general measurement bases are constructed, which have no restrictions on the coefficients of the prepared states. It is shown that through a four-particle projective measurement and two-step three-particle projective measurement under the novel sets of mutually orthogonal basis vectors, the original state can be prepared with the probability 50 and 100 %, respectively. And for the first scheme, the special cases of the prepared state that the success probability reaches up to 100 % are discussed by the permutation group. Furthermore, the present schemes are extended to the non-maximally entangled quantum channel, and the classical communication costs are calculated.
By using the χ -type entangled states, a novel scheme for multi-party quantum state sharing (MQSTS) of an arbitrary multi-qubit state is investigated. It is shown that the MQSTS scheme can be faithfully realized by performing appropriate Bell state measurements, Z basis measurements and local unitary operations, rather than multiqubit entanglement or multi-particle joint measurements. Thus, our MQSTS scheme is more convenient in a practical application than some previous schemes. Furthermore, its intrinsic efficiency for qubits approaches 100 %, and the total efficiency really approaches the maximal value, which is higher than those of the previous MQSTS schemes. Finally, we analyze the security from the views of participant attack and outside attack in detail.
In a recent article, Gharibian (Phys Rev A 86:042106 2012) has conjectured that no two-qubit separable state of rank greater than two could be maximally nonclassical (defined to be those which have normalized geometric discord 1/4) and asked for an analytic proof. In this work, we prove analytically that among the subclass of X states, there is a unique (up to local unitary equivalence) maximal separable state of rank two. For the general case, we derive some necessary conditions.
A compact quantum circuit for implementing the (SWAP) a gate for 0 < a ≤ 1 on two diamond nitrogen-vacancy centers (NV) is designed by using some input-output processes of a single photon. Our proposal is interesting because the (SWAP) a gate is universal for quantum computing, and the diamond NV center has a long coherence time. Our scheme is compact, and additional electronic qubits are not employed, which beats its synthesis procedure in terms of controlled-not gates and single-qubit rotations largely. Moreover, our scheme is feasible with current experiment technology.
The local Hamiltonian problem is famously complete for the class QMA, the quantum analogue of NP. The complexity of its semiclassical version, in which the terms of the Hamiltonian are required to commute (the CLH problem), has attracted considerable attention recently due to its intriguing nature, as well as in relation to growing interest in the qPCP conjecture. We show here that if the underlying bipartite interaction graph of the CLH instance is a good locally expanding graph, namely the expansion of any constant-size set is ε-close to optimal, then approximating its ground energy to within additive factor O(ε) lies in NP. The proof holds for k-local Hamiltonians for any constant k and any constant dimensionality of particles d. We also show that the approximation problem of CLH on such good local expanders is NPhard. This implies that too good local expansion of the interaction graph constitutes an obstacle against quantum hardness of the approximation problem, though it retains its classical hardness. The result highlights new difficulties in trying to mimic classical proofs (in particular, Dinur's PCP proof) in an attempt to prove the quantum PCP conjecture. A related result was discovered recently independently by Brandão and Harrow, for 2-local general Hamiltonians, bounding the quantum hardness of the approximation problem on good expanders, though no NP hardness is known in that case.
We present a new set of inequalities to detect inseparability in N -qubit states. These are based on negative partial transposition and involve collective qubitqubit correlations of any two partitions of the entire system. They reveal the rich texture of partial separability for different partitions and can discriminate between GHZ-type and W-type entanglement, as well. We introduce a new concept of relative entanglement of two different systems and two different partitions in a qubit-ensemble. The criteria in its generic form are also applicable to non-symmetric states and states with odd or even N .
Audenaert and Datta recently introduced a two-parameter family of relative Rényi entropies, known as the α-z-relative Rényi entropies. The definition of the αz-relative Rényi entropy unifies all previously proposed definitions of the quantum Rényi divergence of order α under a common framework. Here, we will prove that the α-z-relative Rényi entropies are a proper generalization of the quantum relative entropy by computing the limit of the α-z divergence as α approaches one and z is an arbitrary function of α. We also show that certain operationally relevant families of Rényi divergences are differentiable at α = 1. Finally, our analysis reveals that the derivative at α = 1 evaluates to half the relative entropy variance, a quantity that has attained operational significance in second-order quantum hypothesis testing and channel coding for finite block lengths.
We investigate the uncertainty principle for two successive projective measurements in terms of Rényi entropy based on a single quantum system. Our results cover a large family of the entropy (including the Shannon entropy) uncertainty relations with a lower optimal bound. We compare our relation with other formulations of the uncertainty principle in two-spin observables measured on a pure quantum state of qubit. It is shown that the low bound of our uncertainty relation has better tightness.
We propose a effective W -state fusion scheme with the help of weak cross-Kerr nonlinearities, which can fuse a n-qubit W state and a m-qubit W state to a (m + n -1)-qubit state without an ancillary photon. Specially, the present scheme can fuse two Bell states to create a three-qubit W state. We analyze the resource cost and the success probability of the scheme. The analysis shows that the present scheme requires less resource cost compared with the previous ones and can be achieved with high probability under the current experiment technology.
We develop two efficient measurement-based schemes for remotely preparing arbitrary three-and four-particle W-class entangled states by utilizing genuine tripartite Greenberg-Horn-Zeilinger-type states as quantum channels, respectively. Through appropriate local operations and classical communication, the desired states can be faithfully retrieved at the receiver's place with certain probability. Compared with the previously existing schemes, the success probability in current schemes is greatly increased. Moreover, the required classical communication cost is calculated as well. Further, several attractive discussions on the properties of the presented schemes, including the success probability and reducibility, are made. Remarkably, the proposed schemes can be faithfully achieved with unity total success probability when the employed channels are reduced into maximally entangled ones.
We consider the problem of time-optimal control of quadrupole nucleus with the spin I = 1 by NMR. In contrast to the conventional methods based on selective pulses, the control is implemented using nonselective pulses separated by free-evolution intervals. Using the Cartan decomposition, the system of equations is obtained for finding parameters of a control field. Partial time-optimal solutions for the important single-qutrit gates (selective rotations and quantum Fourier transform) are found. The strong dependence of minimum gate implementation times on global phase of the gate is observed. The analytical values of minimum times are consistent with the numerical data.
Quantum deficit originates in questions regarding work extraction from quantum systems coupled to a heat bath (Oppenheim et al. in Phys Rev Lett 89:180402,  2002). It links quantum correlations with quantum thermodynamics and provides a new standpoint for understanding quantum non-locality. In this paper, we propose a new method to evaluate the one-way deficit for a class of two-qubit states. The dynamic behavior of the one-way deficit under decoherence channel is investigated, and it is shown that the one-way deficit of the X states with five parameters is more robust against decoherence than entanglement.
We propose two schemes for concentration of (n +1)-qubit entangled states that can be written in the form of (α|ϕ 0 |0 + β|ϕ 1 |1 ) n+1 where |ϕ 0 and |ϕ 1 are mutually orthogonal n-qubit states. The importance of this general form is that the entangled states such as Bell, cat, GHZ, GHZ-like, |Ω , |Q 5 , 4-qubit cluster states and specific states from the nine SLOCC-nonequivalent families of 4-qubit entangled states can be expressed in this form. The proposed entanglement concentration protocol is based on the local operations and classical communications (LOCC). It is shown that the maximum success probability for ECP using quantum nondemolition technique (QND) is 2β 2 for (n + 1)-qubit states of the prescribed form. It is shown that the proposed schemes can be implemented optically. Further, it is also noted that the proposed schemes can be implemented using quantum dot and microcavity systems.
Employing a polarization-entangled χ state, which is a four-photon genuine entangled state, we propose a protocol teleporting a general two-photon polarization state. Firstly, the sender needs to perform one Controlled-NOT gate, one Hadamard gate, and one Controlled-NOT gate on the state to be teleported in succession. Secondly, the sender performs local nondemolition parity analyses based on cross-Kerr nonlinearities and publicizes the achieved outcomes. Finally, conditioned on the sender's analysis outcomes, the receiver executes the single-photon unitary transformation operations on his own photons to obtain the state originally sit in the sender's location. Due to the employment of nondemolition parity analyses rather than fourqubit joint measurement, it can be realized more feasible with currently available technologies. Moreover, the resources of Bell states can be achieved because the nondestructive measurement is exploited, which facilitates other potential tasks of quantum information processing.
In this article, the robustness of tripartite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) and W states is investigated against Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (i.e. DM) interaction. We consider a closed system of three qubits and an environmental qubit. The environmental qubit interacts with any one of the three qubits through DM interaction. The tripartite system is initially prepared in GHZ and W states, respectively. The composite four qubits system evolve with unitary dynamics. We detach the environmental qubit by tracing out from four qubits, and profound impact of DM interaction is studied on the initial entanglement of the system. As a result, we find that the bipartite partitions of W states suffer from entanglement sudden death (i.e. ESD), while tripartite entanglement does not. On the other hand, bipartite partitions and tripartite entanglement in GHZ states do not feel any influence of DM interaction. So, we find that GHZ states have robust character than W states. In this work, we consider generalised GHZ and W states, and three π is used as an entanglement measure. This study can be useful in quantum information processing where unwanted DM interaction takes place.
The field of quantum information processing is rapidly advancing. As the control of quantum systems approaches the level needed for useful computation, the physical hardware underlying the quantum systems is becoming increasingly complex. It is already becoming impractical to manually code control for the larger hardware implementations. In this chapter, we will employ an approach to the problem of system control that parallels compiler design for a classical computer. We will start with a candidate quantum computing technology, the surface electrode ion trap, and build a system instruction language which can be generated from a simple machineindependent programming language via compilation. We incorporate compile time generation of ion routing that separates the algorithm description from the physical geometry of the hardware. Extending this approach to automatic routing at run time allows for automated initialization of qubit number and placement and additionally allows for automated recovery after catastrophic events such as qubit loss. To show that these systems can handle real hardware, we present a simple demonstration system that routes two ions around a multi-zone ion trap and handles ion loss and ion placement. While we will mainly use examples from transport-based ion trap quantum computing, many of the issues and solutions are applicable to other architectures.
In this paper, we study the ordering states with Tsallis relative α-entropies of coherence and l 1 norm of coherence for single-qubit states. Firstly, we show that any Tsallis relative α-entropies of coherence and l 1 norm of coherence give the same ordering for single-qubit pure states. However, they do not generate the same ordering for some high-dimensional states, even though these states are pure. Secondly, we also consider three special Tsallis relative α-entropies of coherence for α = 2, 1, 1 2 and show these three measures and l 1 norm of coherence will not generate the same ordering for some single-qubit mixed states. Nevertheless, they may generate the same ordering if we only consider a special subset of single-qubit mixed states. Furthermore, we find that any two of these three special measures generate different ordering for single-qubit mixed states. Finally, we discuss the degree of violation of between l 1 norm of coherence and Tsallis relative α-entropies of coherence. In a sense, this degree can measure the difference between these two coherence measures in ordering states.
The effect of non-orthogonality of an entangled non-orthogonal state-based quantum channel is investigated in detail in the context of the teleportation of a qubit. Specifically, average fidelity, minimum fidelity and minimum assured fidelity (MASFI) are obtained for teleportation of a single-qubit state using all the Bell-type entangled non-orthogonal states known as quasi-Bell states. Using Horodecki criterion, it is shown that the teleportation scheme obtained by replacing the quantum channel (Bell state) of the usual teleportation scheme by a quasi-Bell state is optimal. Further, the performance of various quasi-Bell states as teleportation channel is compared in an ideal situation (i.e., in the absence of noise) and under different noise models (e.g., amplitude and phase damping channels). It is observed that the best choice of the quasi-Bell state depends on the amount non-orthogonality, both in noisy and noiseless case. A specific quasi-Bell state, which was found to be maximally entangled in the ideal conditions, is shown to be less efficient as a teleportation channel compared to other quasi-Bell states in particular cases when subjected to noisy channels. It has also been observed that usually the value of average fidelity falls with an increase in the number of qubits exposed to noisy channels (viz., Alice's, Bob's and to be teleported qubits), but the converse may be observed in some particular cases.
Inspiring from the scheme proposed in (Zheng in Phys Rev A 69:064,302 2004), our aim is to teleport an unknown qubit atomic state using the cavity QED method without using the explicit Bell-state measurement, and so the additional atom is not required. Two identical Λ-type three-level atoms are interacted separately and subsequently with a two-mode quantized cavity field where each mode is expressed with a single-photon field state. The interaction between atoms and field is well described via the Jaynes-Cummings model. It is then shown that how if the atomic detection results a particular state of atom 1, an unknown state can be appropriately teleported from atom 1 to atom 2. This teleportation procedure successfully leads to the high fidelity F (success probability P g ) in between 69% F 100% (0.14 P g 0.56). At last, we illustrated that our scheme considerably improves similar previous proposals.
We present some new analytical polygamy inequalities satisfied by the xth power of convex-roof extended negativity of assistance with x ≥ 2 and x ≤ 0 for multi-qubit generalized W -class states. Using Rényi-α entropy (RαE) with α ∈ [( √ 7 -1)/2, ( √ 13 -1)/2], we prove new monogamy and polygamy relations. We further show that the monogamy inequality also holds for the μth power of Rényi-α entanglement. Moreover, we study two examples in multipartite higher-dimensional system for those new inequalities.
Quantum private comparison (QPC) protocol, including Alice, Bob and the third party Charlie, aims at comparing Alice and Bob's secret inputs correctly without leaking them. Firstly, χ + state and W-Class state are used to conduct the entanglement swapping in this protocol. Either the basis {|φ ± , |ψ ± } or the basis {|χ ± , |ω ± } is chosen by Alice and Bob based on the predetermined value to measure the particle pairs. And three bits of secret inputs can be compared in this protocol in every comparison time, while most of previous QPC protocols can only compare one or two bits. The qubit efficiency of this protocol is 60% more than others, which are 50% at most. Secondly, if the eavesdropper intends to obtain the secret inputs, it is important and primary to get the measurement results of particle pairs. In this protocol, even if the eavesdropper gets the accurate particle pairs, he cannot get the right measurement results without the right basis. Finally, this protocol is analyzed to be able to defend the secret inputs against various kinds of attack.
Quantum coherence is an important physical resource in quantum computation and quantum information processing. Among the appropriate measures of quantum coherence, the l 1 norm of coherence is a widely known coherence measure and easy to use quantifiers. In this paper, we discuss the superadditivity inequalities and strong subadditivity of the l 1 norm of coherence. We show that the l 1 norm of coherence is superadditive for all states, which gives a positive answer to a conjecture in
It is known that the n-qubit system has no unextendible product bases (UPBs) of cardinality 2 n -1, 2 n -2 and 2 n -3. On the other hand, the n-qubit UPBs of cardinality 2 n -4 exist for all n ≥ 3. We prove that they do not exist for cardinality 2 n -5.
In this paper, we present a scheme for Hierarchically controlled remote preparation of an arbitrary single-qubit state via a four-qubit |χ state as the quantum channel. In this scheme, a sender wishes to help three agents to remotely prepare a quantum state, respectively. The three agents are divided into two grades, that is, an agent is in the upper grade and other two agents are in the lower grade. It is shown that the agent of the upper grade only needs the assistance of any one of the other two agents for recovering the sender's original state, while an agent of the lower grade needs the collaboration of all the other two agents. In other words, the agents of two grades have different authorities to recover sender's original state.
We consider the optimal approximation of arbitrary qubit states with respect to an available states consisting the eigenstates of two of three Pauli matrices, the B 2distance of an arbitrary target state. Both the analytical formulae of the B 2 -distance and the corresponding complete optimal decompositions are obtained. The tradeoff relations for both the sum and the squared sum of the B 2 -distances have been analytically and numerically investigated.
Based on a cavity-assisted single-photon input-output process, we first construct the hybrid controlled-phase-flip gate between photon and the single-logic qubit in decoherence-free subspaces. And we also achieve the universal single-qubit logic operations. We realize the distributed quantum information processing with the hybrid controlled-phase-flip gate and single-qubit logic operations. Finally, we discuss the experimental feasibility of our scheme, which is satisfied with currently available technology.
We propose an efficient protocol to implement accelerated and robust population transfer in a transmon qutrit via -type driving. By means of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage, we first show an adiabatic population transfer in the qutrit under a two-photon resonance. By taking advantage of the weak level anharmonicity of the qutrit, only two drivings are needed to be applied to the qutrit, forming a -type interaction. With the Gaussian-shaped Rabi couplings, target population transfer can be accelerated substantially when compared to the adiabatic process. Moreover, we analyze the negligible leakages and distinct fidelity enhancement with the accessible parameters. The present scheme could offer a promising application in experimentally performing population transfer with the transmon-regime quantum circuits.
A violation of a Bell inequality can formally be expressed as a witness for quantum nonlocality. A new four-qubit Bell inequality is optimally violated by χ -type entangled state, but not by four-qubit GHZ, W and cluster state. Hence, χ -type entangled state is a good candidate to implement simultaneous dense coding. In this paper, we propose a simultaneous dense coding protocol with genuine four-particle entangled state, χ -type entangled state, in which two receivers can simultaneously obtain their respective classical information sent by a sender. The double controlled-NOT operator, which is used as the locking operator, play a crucial role in our protocol. The security of simultaneous dense coding is analyzed against the intercept-resend attack. The preparation of χ -type entangled state has been studied in various physics systems, and it has been experimentally generated with nearly deterministic scheme and high generation rate. Thus, our protocol is feasible with the current experimental technology.
We prove a new polygamy relation of multi-party quantum entanglement in terms of Rényi-α entanglement of assistance for √ 7 -1 /2 ≤ α ≤ √ 13 -1 /2. This class of polygamy inequality reduces to the polygamy inequality based on entanglement of assistance since Rényi-α entanglement is a generalization of entanglement of formation.
We show that there are six inequivalent 4 × 4 unextendible product bases (UPBs) of size eight, when we consider only 4-qubit product vectors. We apply our results to construct positive-partial-transpose entangled states of rank nine. They are at the same time 4-qubit, 2 × 2 × 4 and 4 × 4 states, and their ranges have product vectors. One of the six UPBs turns out to be orthogonal to an incompletely genuinely entangled space, in the sense that the latter does not contain 4 × 4 product vector in any bipartition of 4-qubit systems. We also show that the multipartite UPB orthogonal to a genuinely entangled space exists if and only if the n × n × n UPB orthogonal to a genuinely entangled space exists for some n. These results help understand an open problem in Demianowicz and Augusiak (Phys Rev A 98:012313, 2018).
This work proposes an extension of the well-known Eisert-Wilkens-Lewenstein scheme for playing a twice repeated 2 × 2 game using a single quantum system with ten maximally entangled qubits. The proposed scheme is then applied to the Prisoner's Dilemma game. Rational strategy profiles are examined in the presence of limited awareness of the players. In particular, the paper considers two cases of a classical player against a quantum player game: the first case when the classical player does not know that his opponent is a quantum one and the second case, when the classical player is aware of it. To this end, the notion of unawareness was used, and the extended Nash equilibria were determined.
A quantum algorithm for the calculation of π is proposed and implemented on the five-qubit IBM quantum computer with superconducting qubits. We find π = 3.157± 0.017. The error is due to the noise of quantum one-qubit operations and measurements. The results can be used for estimating the errors of the quantum computer and suggest that the errors are purely random.
Quantum systems provide a new way of conducting computations based on the so-called qubits. Due to the potential for significant speed-ups, this field received significant research attention in recent years. The Clifford+T library is a very promising and popular gate library for these kinds of computations. Unlike other libraries considered so far, it consists of only a small number of gates for all of which robust, fault-tolerant realizations are known for many technologies that seem to be promising for large-scale quantum computing. As a consequence, (logic) synthesis of Clifford+T quantum circuits became an important research problem. However, previous work in this area has several drawbacks: Corresponding approaches are either only applicable to very small quantum systems or lead to circuits that are far from being optimal. The latter is mainly caused by the fact that current synthesis realizes the desired circuit by a local, i.e., column-wise, consideration of the underlying unitary transformation matrix to be synthesized. In this paper, we analyze the conceptual drawbacks of this approach and propose to overcome them by taking a global view of the matrices and perform a separation of concerns regarding individual synthesis steps. We precisely describe a corresponding algorithm as well as its efficient implementation on top of decision diagrams. Experimental results confirm the resulting benefits and show improvements of up to several orders of magnitudes in costs compared to previous work.
For any symmetric key cryptosystem with n-bit secret key, the key can be recovered in O(2 n/2 ) exploiting Grover search algorithm, resulting in the effective key length to be half. In this direction, subsequent work has been done on AES and some other block ciphers. On the other hand, lightweight ciphers like S I M O N was left unexplored. In this backdrop, we present Grover's search algorithm on all the variants of S I M O N and enumerate the quantum resources to implement such attack in terms of NOT, CNOT and Toffoli gates. We also provide the T -depth of the circuits and the number of qubits required for the attack. We show that the number of qubits required for implementing Grover on S I M O N 2n/mn is O(2nr + mn), where r is the number of chosen plaintext-ciphertext pairs. We run a reduced version of S I M O N in IBMQ quantum simulator and the 14-qubit processor as well. We found that where simulation supports theory, the actual implementation is far from the reality due to the infidelity of the gates and short decoherence time of the qubits. The complete codes for all version of S I M O N have also been presented.
Designing and implementing algorithms for medium-and large-scale quantum computers is not easy. In the previous work, we have suggested, and developed, the idea of using machine learning techniques to train a quantum system such that the desired process is "learned," thus obviating the algorithm design difficulty. This works quite well for small systems. But the goal is macroscopic physical computation. Here, we implement our learned pairwise entanglement witness on Microsoft's Q#, one of the commercially available gate model quantum computer simulators; we perform statistical analysis to determine reliability and reproducibility; and we show that after training the system in stages for an incrementing number of qubits (2, 3, 4, …) we can infer the pattern for mesoscopic N from simulation results for three-, four-, five-, six-, and seven-qubit systems. Our results suggest a fruitful pathway for general quantum computer algorithm design and for practical computation on noisy intermediate-scale quantum devices.
Quantum computers represent a serious threat to the safety of modern encryption standards. Within symmetric cryptography, Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is believed to be quantum resistant if the key sizes are large enough. Arithmetic operations in AES are performed over the binary field F 2 m generated by an irreducible pentanomial of degree m = 8 using polynomial basis (PB) representation. Multiplication over F 2 m is the most complex and important arithmetic operation, so efficient implementations are highly desired. A number of quantum circuits realizing F 2 m multiplication have been proposed, where the number of qubits, the number of quantum gates and the depth of the circuit are mainly considered as optimization objectives. In this work, optimized reversible quantum circuits for F 2 8 multiplication using PB generated by two irreducible pentanomials are presented. The proposed reversible multipliers require the minimum number of qubits and CNOT gates, and the minimum depth among similar F 2 8 multipliers found in the literature.
In this paper, we show the important roles of 1 -norm in Yang-Baxter quantum system in connection with both the braid matrix and quantum entanglements., Concretely, we choose the two-body and three-body S-matrices, which are constrained by Yang-Baxter equation. Previously, it was shown that for two-body case, the extreme values of 1 -norm led to two types of braid matrices and two-qubit Bell states. Here, we show that for the three-body case, due to the constraint of Yang-Baxter equation, the extreme values of 1 -norm lead to both three-qubit |G H Z (local maximum) and |W (local minimum) states, which cover all three-qubit genuine entanglements for pure states under stochastic local operation and classical communication. This is a more convincing signature for the roles of 1 -norm in quantum entanglement associated with Yang-Baxter equation.
Quantum coherence is the basic characteristic of quantum mechanics. It is an important task to order states with various coherence measures. We investigate the order relations between the l 1 norm of coherence and the α-affinity of coherence for quantum states. We find that the l 1 norm of coherence and any α-affinity of coherence provide the same ordering for qubit pure states and maximally coherent mixed qubit states. We also show that there exist some qubit states which give rise to different ordering under the l 1 norm of coherence and any α-affinity of coherence. In addition, the l 1 norm of coherence and α-affinity of coherence do not generate the same ordering for some high-dimensional pure states, but they do for some special X states of two-qubit systems.
Quantum computing is a field of study aimed at developing technologies based on the principles of quantum theory. In this research area, enormous theoretical progress has been made, but at the current state, few quantum algorithms have been developed. It is very hard to efficiently construct new ones. The complexity is due to the non-intuitive nature of quantum operations. To overcome this obstacle, we opt for the integration of an automatic design approach. In this paper, we propose an adapted version of Back-Tracking algorithm allowing complete but optimal exploration of the quantum circuits space. For a given problem, the test of possible quantum gate sequences is optimized by using a constraint making it possible to ignore all unnecessary calculation in an efficient manner. In addition, solutions are generated automatically without resorting to mathematical formulas. Our approach allowed us to generate two new versions of controlled quantum teleportation. In the first version, the controller can switch the teleported Qubit between two possible distant receivers, while in the second version, this controller can choose between two different transmitters.
Normal forms play a crucial role in the problem of gate synthesis. We propose a normal form for single-qudit gates composed of Clifford and T -gates for qudits of odd prime dimension p ≥ 5. We prove that any single-qudit Clifford+T operator can be reexpressed in this normal form in polynomial time. We obtained strong computational evidence that this normal form is unique. Assuming uniqueness, we are able to use this normal form to provide an efficient algorithm for exact synthesis of any single-qudit Clifford+T operator with minimal T -count.
There have been several research works on the hidden shift problem, quantum algorithms for the problem, and their applications. However, all the results have focused on discrete groups with discrete oracle functions. In this paper, we define the continuous hidden shift problem on R n with a continuous oracle function as an extension of the hidden shift problem, and also define the ε-random linear disequations which is a generalization of the random linear disequations. By employing the newly defined concepts, we show that there exists a quantum computational algorithm which solves this problem in time polynomial in n.
Quantum teleportation protocols are widely employed for secure transfer of quantum states to away part. In this paper, we present a new scheme for teleporting a N -qubit entangled state via a (N + 1)-qubit cluster state as quantum channel. In this scheme, the sender (Alice) performs a von Neumann measurement on her basis and announces the result to the receiver (Bob), let him to recover the original state by affecting unitary operator on his state. Here, firstly, we present our general scheme for teleportation of a N -qubit entangled state by using a (N + 1)-qubit cluster state; then, the proposed scheme is examined by a simple example in which a 6-qubit entangled state is teleported by employing the proposed scheme. Finally, we analyze the efficiency of the scheme and indicate its advantages.
We realize the second Hopf fibration for a two-qubit system without using the quaternionic language. In this respect, we explore the geometrical features emerging from this Hopf fibration. Further, we investigate the metric tensor and the SO(4) nonabelian gauge field defined on the S 4 -base in terms of the entanglement quantified by the Wootters concurrence on the associated Hopf bundle. Finally, by transforming an entangled two-qubit state in the Schmidt form, we examine the different quantum phases acquired by this state under U (2) × U (2) local unitary operations in relation to the entanglement as well as the geometry of the corresponding state manifold.
Information is encoded in a qubit in the form of its Bloch vector. In this paper, we propose protocols for remote transfers of information in a known and an unknown qubit to qudits using SU (2)-invariant 2 × N -level separable discordant states as quantum channels. These states have been identified as separable equivalents of the two-qubit entangled Werner states in Bharath and Ravishankar (Phys Rev A 89:062110, 2014). Due to SU (2) × SU (2) invariance of these states, the remote qudit can be changed by performing appropriate measurements on the qubit. We also propose a protocol for transferring information of a family of unknown qudits to remote qudits using 2 × Nlevel states as channels. Finally, we propose a protocol for swapping of quantum discord from 2 × N -level systems to N × N -level systems. All the protocols proposed in this paper involve separable states as quantum channels.
Non-Hermitian systems with parity-time (PT ) symmetry and anti-PT symmetry lead to exceptional points (EPs) with intriguing properties related to, e.g., chiral transport and enhanced sensitivity, due to the coalescence of eigenvectors. In this paper, we propose an easily computable tool, based on the Hilbert-Schmidt speed (HSS), not requiring the diagonalization of the evolved density matrix, to detect exactly the EPs, especially in high-dimensional systems. Our theoretical predictions, made without the need for modification of the Hilbert space, are completely consistent with results extracted from recent experiments studying the criticality in (anti-)PTsymmetric systems. Moreover, not modifying the Hilbert space of the non-Hermitian system, we find that the trace distance whose dynamics is known as a faithful witness of non-Markovianity, may be non-contractive under the non-Hermitian evolution of the system. Therefore, it losses one of the most important characteristics which must be met by any standard witness of non-Markovianity. We also address the noncontractivity of quantum Fisher information in non-Hermitian systems.
Construction of maximal entanglement-assisted quantum error correction (EAQEC) codes is one of the fundamental problems of quantum computing and quantum information. The objective of this paper is twofold: firstly, to obtain all possible construction matrices of the linear codes over the skew group ring F 4 ϕ G, where G is the cyclic and dihedral groups of finite orders; and secondly, to obtain some good maximal EAQEC codes over the finite field F 4 by using skew construction matrices. Additionally, to speed up the computational search time, we employ a nature inspired heuristic optimisation algorithm, the virus optimisation (VO) algorithm. With our method, we obtain a number of good maximal EAQEC codes over the finite field F 4 in a reasonably short time. In particular, we improve the lower bounds of 18 maximal EAQEC codes that exist in the literature. Moreover, some of our EAQEC codes turn out to be also maximum distance separable (MDS) codes. Also, by using our construction matrices, we provide counterexamples to Theorems 4 and 5 of Lai et al. (Quantum Inf  Process 13(4):957-990, 2014), on the non-existence of maximal EAQEC codes with parameters [[n, 1, n; n -1]] and [[n, n -1, 2; 1]] for an even length n. We also give a counterexample to another Theorem found in Lai and Ashikhmin (IEEE Trans Inf    
We study quantum circuits composed of a sequence of CNOT gates between distant qubits of a n-qubit system. We present some results concerning two important topics related to these circuits: circuit optimization and emergence of entanglement. Regarding the optimization problem, we first describe the group structure underlying quantum circuits generated by CNOT gates (group isomorphism, group presentation), then we apply these mathematical results to the description of heuristics to reduce the number of gates in these circuits and we also propose an optimization algorithm for circuits of a few qubits. Concerning entanglement, we show how to create some useful entangled states when a circuit of CNOT gates acts on a fully factorized state. In the case of a 3-qubit system, we prove that a CNOT circuit acting on a fully factorized state can create all types of entanglement and we propose a method to evaluate the reliability of the implementation of a SLOCC-equivalent to the state |W 3 in a quantum machine by computing the value of the hyperdeterminant. In the case of a 4-qubit system, we propose a circuit to compute a generic entangled state and a (computer-assisted) proof of the impossibility of creating a SLOCC-equivalent to the state |W 4 from a circuit of CNOT gates acting on a factorized state
In this paper, we derive a general formula of the tangle for pure states of three qubits and present three explicit local unitary (LU) polynomial invariants. Our result goes beyond the classical work of tangle, 3-tangle, and von Neumann entropy of entanglement for Acín et al.' Schmidt decomposition (ASD) of three qubits by connecting the tangle, 3-tangle, and von Neumann entropy for ASD with Acín et al.'s LU invariants.
Quantum synchronizable codes (QSCs) are special quantum error-correcting codes which can be used to correct the effects of quantum noise on qubits and misalignment in block synchronization. In this paper, we first construct a new class of QSCs from cyclic codes of length 2 n , by using the cyclotomic cosets. Besides, we give another new class of QSCs based on BCH codes of length an integer N satisfying some certain conditions. The synchronization capabilities of all these QSCs are always the upper bound. In addition, the lower bounds of correcting bit errors and phase errors for these codes are also given.
In this paper, we mainly discuss the quantum reversible circuits of multiplication over GF(2 8 ), which has many applications in modern cryptography. The quantum circuits of multiplication over GF(2 8 ) implemented by using the existing methods need at least 64 Toffoli gates without auxiliary qubits. However, Toffoli gates need a lot of quantum resources in physical implementation. Therefore, we try to construct the quantum circuits with as few Toffoli gates as possible. We first convert multiplication over GF(2 8 ) into multiplication over composite field GF((2 4 ) 2 ), and then realize the quantum circuits of multiplication over GF(2 4 ) by means of product matrix and converting the multiplication into composite field GF((2 2 ) 2 ), respectively. In addition, we also discuss the case where the initial output qubits of the product are not |0 s, and give the quantum circuit of multiplication over GF(2 4 ) in this case according to the principle of minimizing the number of Toffoli gates. Finally, according to the calculation formula of multiplication over composite field GF((2 4 ) 2 ) and the isomorphic mappings between GF(2 8 ) and GF((2 4 ) 2 ), the quantum circuits of multiplication over GF(2 8 ) are realized. These quantum circuits without auxiliary qubits only needs 42 Toffoli gates, which are 22 less than the quantum circuits realized by the existing methods. Specifically, we give the specific quantum circuits with irreducible polynomials f (x) = x 8 + x 4 + x 3 + x + 1 and f (x) = x 8 + x 4 + x 3 + x 2 + 1, respectively.
In this paper, we present implementations of an annealing-based and a gate-based quantum computing approach for finding the optimal policy to traverse a grid and compare them to a classical deep reinforcement learning approach. We extended these three approaches by allowing for stochastic actions instead of deterministic actions and by introducing a new learning technique called curriculum learning. With curriculum learning, we gradually increase the complexity of the environment and we find that it has a positive effect on the expected reward of a traversal. We see that the number of training steps needed for the two quantum approaches is lower than that needed for the classical approach.
centers in diamonds provide a room-temperature platform for various emerging quantum technologies, e.g., the long nuclear spin coherence times as potential quantum memory registers. We demonstrate a freezing protocol for an NV center to isolate its intrinsic nuclear spin from a noisy electromagnetic environment. Any initial state of the nuclear spin can be frozen when the hyperfine-coupled electron and nuclear spins are simultaneously driven with unequal Rabi frequencies. Through numerical simulations, we show that our protocol can effectively shield the nuclear spin from strong drive or noise fields. We also observe a clear suppression of quantum correlations in the frozen nuclear spin regime by measuring the quantum discord of the electron-nuclear spin system. These features can be instrumental in extending the storage times of NV nuclear spin-based quantum memories in hybrid quantum systems.
The original version of this article unfortunately contained error in mathematical expression mentioned in fourth step "Further reduction step" listed under Section 3.3.
In this paper, we present some new key-recovery attacks on Misty L-KF, Misty R-KF, and generalized Feistel schemes. Firstly, we propose a new 5-round distinguisher on Misty L-KF structure. Based on our new distinguisher attack, we propose a new 6-round Demiric-Selçuk meet-in-the-middle attack (DS-MITM attack) against Misty L-KF structure. Secondly, we extend our classical DS-MITM attack to a new quantum DS-MITM attack on Misty L-KF structure by using the quantum claw finding algorithm. In addition, we apply the above method to attack Misty R-KF and generalized Feistel schemes. To sum up, we construct our classical key-recovery attacks on the 6round Misty L-KF structure and Misty R-KF structure with O(2 3n/4 ) time and O(2 n/2 ) memory cost. By using a quantum computer, our new quantum key-recovery attacks on the 6-round Misty L-KF structures and Misty R-KF structures can be constructed with Õ(2 n/2 ) time and O(2 n/2 ) memory cost. Furthermore, we can construct our new quantum (5d -4)-round key-recovery attacks on the d-branch contracting Feistels with Õ(2 (d-1)n/d ) time and O(2 (d-1)n/d ) memory cost. In the end, we can construct our new quantum (4d -3)-round and (5d -4)-round key-recovery attacks on the two types of d-branch expanding Feistels with Õ(2 (d-1)n/d ) time and O(2 (d-1)n/d ) memory cost.
We investigate generic n-point correlation functions of conformal field theories (CFTs), with T T and J T deformations, in terms of the perturbative CFT approach. We systematically obtain the first order correction to the generic correlation functions of CFTs with T T or J T deformation. We compute the out of time ordered correlation function (OTOC) in the Ising model with T T or J T deformation, which confirms that these deformations do not change the integrable property up to the first order level.
9 8 @58 9A B CDCC
^X_`T XU aT XSb cVU adeXT fXXaghiXSV`ajhVT U adkheU T gcaj^ljeXSdm cT `_ kheU T gnU cT
&_ `a'-2 \ -bcb-% `],a'2 -]/db-&1_ & efghhihjklm gnolm p fliefp nqfnr stlup m livhw olixqp ynw r p m z s{np | p q}~stgp ql {np | p q}flnozhjlqm o qj hw olm p hqefp nqfnr s{np | p q}~~stgp ql % em lm nnzlhw lm hw zhjh p onqr p hqlilqm ogzr p frlqnulw m onqmhjgzr p fr sr p q}glxqp ynw r p m z s{np | p q}~stgp ql 1 egnq gnq qr m p m m nj hwlqm oefp nqfnlqq}p qnnw p q}sehm
%"&'' () ) *+ % , , -. ! / 0, '! '1, + ''2&&3 '3 '4123
& mq uv n r on w n mpv ziumq uvj}lpmq lk m} jv kpq n jmxq pq uuzpjv pq jv zj}juv mq n opw mr q v lkumq pq n jmx pmu n pmt~v j|n mouuzpjv pq jv zj}lpmq lkuomjw jtzpmu|n oux ojjwj}~zr n or xu n pmt{mn |uv r n q z xpmt jlxin mp / ._0'b'a+* .0 a0 e(b+ / , ). / +0 / '¡b `+0 +, a¢+0 / _* a e0 a / £a 0 / +0 a _a1/ ./ a** ), / 1 3 _a1 e¢+ / * / 1_a1 ¤3 a./ a_a13 a, .)e0 / ., e, * _!¥))0 *¦/ * 3 _a1+ / 1b_./ a* .e/ 0 * a +)* ,/ a_/ 0 §aa/ * eb a.,* * )0 1e3 a)a0 _/ / * e¨* )_+, / * _., !© * 0 a, * b* )0 0 , +./ 1./ , , / +a* / * 0 +a0 * b/ .. e* 0 a / 1_/ 0 §a,/ a §a1/ .be/ .,/ )_1,0 a./ 1,¨* )0 1e , ! ,a0 , * b* )+0 a* / ª* ,¨* ), * §¤/ .,¨/ * 0 a* / ,1/ 0 / , * * )_0 1¨* )./ 0 * / 3 .+.*_a1 ¤a.!`, ) §* )a* * )/ ,a._, * 0 a* .e,* .e/ 1* )¦a 3 * / _, .3 0 .00 0 a* / * / ¨* )_a1_.!«0, * .e+,a a* 1/ 00 / +0 a _a1/ ./ ,/ * )¦a* _0 1/ _/ / 1 ea, _a _0¨_a1, ! TSTINLK QISLRMXRYTSTZM SL[RVN¬TSTU LM RP P K LRMP J RJ K P J K LP ¬VK P P K QRJ K NLSWQM K TY¬\]ZIK VP]P J NX ®610TWXZNIP °± (!
%&%'"( )* * + & , , -! ., (! (/, + ((%''0 0 (1""0 # 234 5 67 8 9ÿ ;6<=9 >? @8 7 A?B C D E F CGHIG 9 B J?B CK L MNMM B89O 8 O F PO B C O Q 3RS T
&'&() * + ' , , -. " / , )" )0, ))
Majorana zero modes (MZMs) are exotic excitations (in condensed matter systems) of fundamental scientific interest and hold great promise as the basis of fault-tolerant topological quantum computation. Though MZMs have been predicted in many platforms, their existence is still under debate. In this paper, we review the recent progress in engineering and detecting MZMs in semiconductor-superconductor heterostructures. We also briefly review the protocols for implementing topological quantum computation by hybrid semiconductor-superconductor nanowires.
Over the past fifteen years, tremendous efforts have been devoted to realizing topological superconductivity in realistic materials and systems, predominately propelled by their promising application potentials in fault-tolerant quantum information processing. In this article, we attempt to give an overview on some of the main developments in this field, focusing in particular on two-dimensional crystalline superconductors that possess either intrinsic p-wave pairing or nontrivial band topology. We first classify the three different conceptual schemes to achieve topological superconductor (TSC), enabled by real-space superconducting proximity effect, reciprocal-space superconducting proximity effect, and intrinsic TSC. Whereas the first scheme has so far been most extensively explored, the subtle difference between the other two remains to be fully substantiated. We then move on to candidate intrinsic or p-wave superconductors, including Sr 2 RuO 4 , UTe 2 , Pb 3 Bi, and graphene-based systems. For TSC systems that rely on proximity effects, the emphases are mainly on the coexistence of superconductivity and nontrivial band topology, as exemplified by transition metal dichalcogenides, cobalt pnictides, and stanene, all in monolayer or few-layer regime. The review completes with discussions on the three dominant tuning schemes of strain, gating, and ferroelectricity in acquiring one or both essential ingredients of the TSC, and optimizations of such tuning capabilities may prove to be decisive in our drive towards braiding of Majorana zero modes and demonstration of topological qubits. topological superconductivity, p-wave pairing, proximity effects, two-dimensional crystalline superconductors
Majorana zero modes (MZMs) have been intensively studied in recent decades theoretically and experimentally as the most promising candidate for non-Abelian anyons supporting topological quantum computation (TQC). In addition to the Majorana scheme, some non-Majorana quasiparticles obeying non-Abelian statistics, including topological Dirac fermionic modes, have also been proposed and therefore become new candidates for TQC. In this review, we overview the non-Abelian braiding properties as well as the corresponding braiding schemes for both the MZMs and the topological Dirac fermionic modes, emphasizing the recent progress on topological Dirac fermionic modes. A topological Dirac fermionic mode can be regarded as a pair of MZMs related by unitary symmetry, which can be realized in a number of platforms, including the one-dimensional topological insulator, higher-order topological insulator, and spin superconductor. This topological Dirac fermionic mode possesses several advantages compared with its Majorana cousin, such as superconductivity-free and larger gaps. Therefore, it provides a new avenue for investigating non-Abelian physics and possible TQC. non-Abelian anyon,
Noether's theorem is one of the fundamental laws in physics, relating the symmetry of a physical system to its constant of motion and conservation law. On the other hand, there exist a variety of non-Hermitian parity-time (PT )-symmetric systems, which exhibit novel quantum properties and have attracted increasing interest. In this work, we extend Noether's theorem to a class of significant PT -symmetry systems for which the eigenvalues of the PT -symmetry Hamiltonian ĤPT change from purely real numbers to purely imaginary numbers, and introduce a generalized expectation value of an operator based on biorthogonal quantum mechanics. We find that the generalized expectation value of a time-independent operator is a constant of motion when the operator presents a standard symmetry in the PT -symmetry unbroken regime, or a chiral symmetry in the PT -symmetry broken regime. In addition, we experimentally investigate the extended Noether's theorem in PT -symmetry single-qubit and two-qubit systems using an optical setup. Our experiment demonstrates the existence of the constant of motion and reveals how this constant of motion can be used to judge whether the PT -symmetry of a system is broken. Furthermore, a novel phenomenon of masking quantum information is first observed in a PT -symmetry two-qubit system. This study not only contributes to full understanding of the relation between symmetry and conservation law in PT -symmetry physics, but also has potential applications in quantum information theory and quantum communication protocols.
Quantum computing was first proposed by Richard Feynman in the 1980s. The basic idea is to use the coherence and entanglement properties of quantum systems to store and calculate information by manipulating the quantum states. Quantum computing presents the possibility of solving large-scale computing problems and is expected to have wide applications in the study of complex problems. The realization of quantum computing imposes strict requirements on the device, especially on the long coherence time and scalability. The former may ensure the coherence of quantum states for calculations, and the latter provides a sufficient number of qubits to realize large-scale quantum computing. There are many implementations of quantum computing, including superconductivity, ion traps, nuclear magnetic resonance, quantum dots, NV centers, photons, and topologies. Topological quantum computing was proposed at the beginning of this century. The basic idea is to use particles obeying non-Abelian statistics, the Majorana zero mode (MZM) in particular, which may emerge from solid-state devices to build topologically stable qubits for fault-tolerant quantum computing. MZM is a bound state possessing particle and antiparticle symmetry. The challenge in topological quantum computing is to experimentally realize MZMs and manipulate them to make qubits. The early claims of observations of MZM in superconductor/semiconductor nanowires and of chiral Majorana fermions in the hybrids of superconductor-quantum anomalous Hall systems are highly controversial and published key articles have been retracted, which have poured cold water on the research community. We view the retractions as a technical setback only, and topological quantum computing remains promising. In this special topic, we include five papers to report several advancements and perspectives of topological quantum computing.
Yb + ions were trapped in a quadrupole ion trap. A mode-locked pulse laser at 355 nm was used to generate a frequency comb to drive a Raman transition between the ground hyperfine qubit states of the Doppler cooled ion. Qubit transitions were driven in co-propagating and counter propagating laser beam geometries. In the co-propagating geometry, the coherence time and the fidelity of gate operations were obtained. By taking advantage of the phonon number sensitivity of the Rabi frequency in the counter-propagating geometry, we measured the center of mass temperature of the trapped ion near the Doppler limit which can be used for general thermometry in the ion trap experiment.
In recent years, Rydberg atom graphs, which are the arrangement of atoms of which the interaction through Rydberg state excitation can be represented by a mathematical graph, have emerged as a promising qubit platform for quantum computing and quantum simulation, through implementing quantum gates and circuits, probing quantum phase transitions in designed atom arrays, and solving the classically difficult class of computational problems. Here we briefly review the remarkable progress of the related techniques and research activities involved with the Rydberg atom graphs. The ease of scalability and controllability of Rydberg atom graphs might enable the quantum advantage in the NISQ (noisy intermediate scale quantum) era.
Ultracold atoms in optical lattices have been celebrated as the representative of the quantum simulator, which is a subcategory of a quantum computer that can solve many-body quantum problems. The system is made of ultracold quantum gases and defect-free light crystals, mimicking the behavior of electrons in a solid-state material. It provides unprecedented tunability of experimental parameters, such as the interaction between particles, dimensions, and disorder, and offers direct accessibility of the many-body quantum state through the measurement of correlation functions. It is an ideal experimental platform to realize exotic Hamiltonian like the Haldane model and to study non-equilibrium dynamics because of its high degrees of isolation from environmental noise. In this article, I review a short history of how the field comes up with the idea of a quantum simulator, the state-of-the-art quantum techniques, and future outlooks.
The study of Majorana fermions is of great importance for the implementation of a quantum computer. These modes are topologically protected and very stable. It is now well known that a p-wave superconducting wire can sustain, in its topological non-trivial phase, Majorana quasiparticles at its ends. Since this type of superconductor is not found in nature, many methods have been devised to implement it. Most of them rely on the spin-orbit interaction. In this paper we study the superconducting properties of a two-band system in the presence of antisymmetric hybridization. We consider inter-band attractive interactions and also an attractive interaction in one of the bands. We show that superconducting fluctuations with p-wave character are induced in the non-interacting band due to the combined effects of inter-band coupling and hybridization. In the case of a wire, this type of induced superconductivity gives rise to four Majorana modes at its ends. The long range correlation between the different charge states of these modes offers new possibilities for the implementation of protected q-bits.
Modeling the environment of a single qubit as a N dimensional quantum system, we show that the dynamics of the qubit alone, if measured in sufficient detail, can reveal the parameters of the qubit-environment coupling Hamiltonian. We show that data from quantum process tomography experiments can be used to get information about the environment that can be used to minimize its deleterious effects on the state of the qubit.
In this paper, we study the αth power monogamy properties related to the entanglement measure in bipartite states. The monogamy relations related to the αth power of negativity and the Convex-Roof Extended Negativity are obtained for N-qubit states. We also give a tighter bound of hierarchical monogamy inequality for the entanglement of formation. We find that the GHZ state and W state can be used to distinguish both the αth power of the concurrence for 0 < α < 2 and the αth power of the entanglement of formation for 0 < α ≤ 1 2 . Furthermore, we compare concurrence with negativity in terms of monogamy property and investigate the difference between them.
A generalized description of entanglement and quantum correlation properties constraining internal degrees of freedom of Dirac (-like) structures driven by arbitrary Poincaré classes of external field potentials is proposed. The role of (pseudo)scalar, (pseudo)vector and tensor interactions in producing/destroying intrinsic quantum correlations for SU(2)⊗SU(2) bi-spinor structures is discussed in terms of generic coupling constants. By using a suitable ansatz to obtain the Dirac Hamiltonian eigenspinor structure of time-independent solutions of the associated Liouville equation, the quantum entanglement, via concurrence, and quantum correlations, via geometric discord, are computed for several combinations of well-defined Poincaré classes of Dirac potentials. Besides its inherent formal structure, our results set up a framework which can be enlarged as to include localization effects and to map quantum correlation effects into Dirac-like systems which describe lowenergy excitations of graphene and trapped ions.
Nonclassicality of quantum states is expressed in many shades, one of the most stringent of them being a new standard introduced recently in Bharath and Ravishankar (2014), by expanding the notion of local hidden variables (LHV) to generalised local hidden variables (GLHV). Considering the family of SU(2) invariant 3 × N level systems, we identify those states that do not admit a GLHV description, which we designate as super-quantum (called exceptional in 
The quantum teleportation plays an important role in quantum information process, in this sense, the quantum entanglement properties involving an infinite chain structure is quite remarkable because real materials could be well represented by an infinite chain. We study the teleportation of an entangled state through a couple of quantum channels, composed by Heisenberg dimers in an infinite Ising-Heisenberg diamond chain, the couple of chains are considered suficciently far away from each other to be ignored the any interaction between them. To teleporting a couple of qubits through the quantum channel, we need to find the average density operator for Heisenberg spin dimers, which will be used as quantum channels. Assuming the input state as a pure state, we can apply the concept of fidelity as a useful measurement of teleportation performance of a quantum channel. Using the standard teleportation protocol, we have derived an analytical expression for the output concurrence, fidelity, and average fidelity. We study in detail the effects of coupling parameters, external magnetic field and temperature dependence of quantum teleportation. Finally, we explore the relations between entanglement of the quantum channel, the output entanglement and the average fidelity of the system. Through a kind of phase diagram as a function of Ising-Heisenberg diamond chain model parameters, we illustrate where the quantum teleportation will succeed and a region where the quantum teleportation could fail.
It is very important to seek an efficient and robust quantum algorithm demanding less quantum resources. We propose one-photon three-qubit original and refined Deutsch-Jozsa algorithms with polarization and two linear momentums degrees of freedom (DOFs). Our schemes are constructed by solely using linear optics. Compared to the traditional ones with one DOF, our schemes are more economic and robust because the necessary photons are reduced from three to one. Our linearoptic schemes are working in a determinate way, and they are feasible with current experimental technology.
In this paper, we investigate the quantum transfer for the system with threelevel Λ-type structure, and construct a shortcut to the adiabatic passage via picture transformation to speed up the evolution. We can design the pulses directly without any additional couplings. Moreover, by choosing suitable control parameters, the Rabi frequencies of pulses can be expressed by the linear superpositions of Gaussian functions, which could be easily realized in experiments. Compared with the previous works using the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage, the quantum transfer can be significantly accelerated with the present scheme.
The so-called q-z-Rényi Relative Entropies provide huge two parameters family of relative entropies which include almost all well-known examples of quantum relative entropies for suitable values of the parameters. In this paper we consider a log-regularized version of this family and use it as a family of potential functions to generate covariant (0, 2) symmetric tensors on the space of invertible quantum states in finite dimensions. The geometric formalism developed here allows us to obtain the explicit expressions of such tensor fields in terms of a basis of globally defined differential forms on a suitable unfolding space without the need to introduce a specific set of coordinates. To make the reader acquainted with the intrinsic formalism introduced, we first perform the computation for the qubit case, and then, we extend the computation of the metric-like tensors to a generic n-level system. By suitably varying the parameters q and z, we are able to recover well-known examples of quantum metric tensors that, in our treatment, appear written in terms of globally defined geometrical objects that do not depend on the coordinates system used. In particular, we obtain a coordinate-free expression for the von Neumann-Umegaki metric, for the Bures metric and for the Wigner-Yanase metric in the arbitrary n-level case.
We study the evolution of a spin-s system described by the long-range zz-type Ising interaction. The Fubiny-Study metric of the quantum state manifold defined by this evolution is obtained. We explore the topology of this manifold and show that it corresponds to a sphere. Exploration of the Riemannian curvature allows us to determine the manifold geometry. Also we calculate the speed of evolution of the system and represent the curvature by means of this speed. This is important for an experimental measurement of the curvature. The conditions for achieving the minimal and maximal values of the speed of evolution are obtained. Also we examine the geometry of state manifold and speed of evolution of spin system in the thermodynamic limit. We propose the physical system of methane molecule for application of our considerations. Finally, we study the influence of an external magnetic field on the metric of state manifold and on the speed of evolution. In this case we obtain the conditions for achieving the minimal possible speed of evolution. For some predefined initial states the orientations of magnetic fields to reach the minimal and maximal values of the speed are found.
We introduce canonical forms for single qutrit Clifford+T circuits and prove that every single-qutrit Clifford+T operator admits a unique such canonical form. We show that our canonical forms are T-optimal in the sense that among all the single-qutrit Clifford+T circuits implementing a given operator our canonical form uses the least number of T gates. Finally, we provide an algorithm which inputs the description of an operator (as a matrix or a circuit) and constructs the canonical form for this operator. The algorithm runs in time linear in the number of T gates. Our results provide a higher-dimensional generalization of prior work by Matsumoto and Amano who introduced similar canonical forms for single-qubit Clifford+T circuits.
consisting of a nonlinear stage implemented by layers of nonlinear gates that proliferate the number of strings, flanked by two linear stages, each deploying layers of a special set of linear ''inflationary'' gates that accelerate the growth of small individual strings. The close formal correspondence to quantum scramblers established in this work leads us to suggest that this three-stage construction is also required in order to scramble quantum states to similar precision and with circuits of similar size. A shallow, O(log n)-depth cipher of the type described here can be used in constructing a polynomial-overhead scheme for computation on encrypted data proposed in another publication as an alternative to Homomorphic Encryption.
We present a theoretical study of quantum phases and quantum phase transitions occurring in non-Hermitian PT -symmetric superconducting qubits chains described by a transverse-field Ising spin model. A non-Hermitian part of the Hamiltonian is implemented via imaginary staggered longitudinal magnetic field, which corresponds to a local staggered gain and loss terms. By making use of a direct numerical diagonalization of the Hamiltonian for spin chains of a finite size N, we explore the dependencies of the energy spectrum, including the energy difference between the first excited and the ground states, the spatial correlation function of local polarization (z-component of local magnetization) on the adjacent spins interaction strength J and the local gain (loss) parameter γ . A scaling procedure for the correlation length ξ allows us to establish a complete quantum phase diagram of the system. We obtain two quantum phases for J < 0, namely, PT -symmetry broken antiferromagnetic state and PT -symmetry preserved paramagnetic state, and the quantum phase transition line between them is the line of exception points. For J > 0 the PT -symmetry of the ground state is retained in a whole region of parameter space of J and γ , and a system shows two intriguing quantum phase transitions between ferromagnetic and paramagnetic states for a fixed parameter γ > 1. We also provide the qualitative quantum phase diagram γ -J derived in the framework of the Bethe-Peierls approximation that is in a good accord with numerically obtained results.
The effects of Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya (DM) interaction on quantum speed limit time (QSLT) of a single qubit and non-Markovianity of a coupled driven extended 𝑋𝑌 spin chain are investigated. The known quantum critical points of the model are left unaffected when DM interaction points in the direction of applied field. Anti-parallel DM interaction to the magnetic field leads to a new critical point of the model whose position is a function of the strength of the three-site interaction. Overall, the dynamics of the two quantities varies differently in a given phase of the model from point to point in the parameter space. Our findings also show that the anti-parallel DM interaction results in fast quantum evolution which might be beneficial for certain quantum computation purposes.
Hybridized two-band model p-wave superconductivity from s-wave superconductivity a topological state induced by a Zeeman magnetic field A B S T R A C T Majorana fermions represent potential candidates for realizing fault-tolerant topological quantum computation. We obtain the exact mapping between a two-band hybridized model and a model with a topological superconducting state supporting Majorana fermions. The antisymmetric hybridization employed resembles that of spin-orbit coupling. We consider the situation where the model Hamiltonian comprises only inter-band s-wave pairing, i.e. the one in which the superconducting pairing is formed by one fermion from one of the bands and another fermion of opposite spin and momentum from the other band. From this we obtain an effective Hamiltonian of the 𝑝 𝑥 + 𝑖𝑝 𝑦 superconductor and calculate the topological invariant that distinguishes the weak and strong pairing phases. We also obtain the gap parameter and chemical potential of the Fermi system under spin-orbit coupling beyond the mean-field approximation. We show that the spin-orbit coupling substantially enhances the density of states at the Fermi surface.
The electroexcitation of the  * (1440) Roper resonance, which defines the first radially excited state of the nucleon, is examined within the soft-wall AdS/QCD model. Such excited Fock states are characterized by the leading three-quark component, which determines the main properties of Roper resonance. The differential configurational entropy (DCE) was used in the nuclear interaction with a gauge vector field for  * (1440) transition. Comparing the main results with the recent data of the CLAS Collaboration at JLab shows a good agreement on the accuracy of the computed data.
We investigate the impact of non uniform distribution of indium (In) in the InxGa1-xN/GaN quantum well (QW) light emitting diodes as compared to the uniform distribution of In. Computations are based on the self-consistence solutions of Schrödinger and Poisson's equations. The transition probabilities have been studied for various In distributions in the QW. A very interesting and striking information emerges through the studies, that the overlap of electron and hole wave functions increase in the non uniformly distributed In leading to higher luminosity. With the consideration of multistep staggered QWs, the overlap of electron and hole wave functions increased more significantly. The results of the overlap and peak emission energies for the uniform and non uniform distribution of In in the QW are presented with suitable discussions.
loop L-C circuit sharing a common capacitance
Introduction: Anaemia is common in haemodialysis patients and treating it with erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) is complex due to many factors.
In this work we use the wave equation to obtain a classical analogue of the quantum search algorithm and we verify that the essence of search algorithms resides in the establishment of resonances between the initial and the searched states. In particular we show that, within a set of N vibration modes, it is possible to excite the searched mode in a number of steps proportional to ffiffiffiffi ffi N p .
We investigate quantum teleportation using the entangled channel consisting of a twoqubit Heisenberg XYZ model with a nonuniform magnetic field in the presence of phase decoherence. It is shown that the initial state of the channel plays an important role in the fully entangled fraction and the average fidelity of teleportation. The distinct feature of our teleportation scheme is that when the initial system is in the state |Ψ = m 2 |01 + n 2 |10 , the corresponding average fidelity is always larger than 2/3 even if there exist phase decoherence effects. Moreover, under certain circumstance, the average teleportation fidelity can be optimized by adjusting the magnitude of the nonuniform magnetic field.
Tripartite correlations are investigated at length by various witnesses such as tripartite negativity, genuine tripartite entanglement, total tripartite correlations and genuine tripartite correlations. Their behaviors following various tunable system parameters as well as their connections with quantum phase transitions (QPTs) in a three-qubit Heisenberg XXZ spin ring with three-spin interaction in thermal equilibrium are discussed. The results show that these tripartite correlation witnesses can faithfully detect the critical points associated with QPTs at zero temperature limit in this model. In addition, total tripartite correlations and genuine tripartite correlations can even signal critical points with respect to anisotropy ∆ at finite low temperatures.
entropies One-parameter family of states Symmetric noisy W-, GHZ states Non-commuting version of relative Tsallis entropy a b s t r a c t
We consider both the nearest and the next nearest neighboring interactions.
A quantum Otto heat engine is established; In the two adiabatic processes, B_c/B_h=J_c/J_h=r is restricted; The work output and efficiency are calculated; The possible adiabatic compression ratios and the ratios of work output between our working substance and a single spin under the same external conditions are analyzed.
In the present work, we introduce the Lambert-Tsallis W q function. It is a generalization of the Lambert W function, that solves the equation W q (z)exp q (W q (z)) = z, where exp q (z) is the q-exponential used by Tsallis in nonextensive statistical mechanics. Here, we show some analytical results and its numerical calculation. We also introduce the disentropy, a function based on W q that plays the opposite role of the entropy. At last, we use the disentropy for calculation of the disentanglement of two-qubit states.
The present work brings two applications of the Lambert-Tsallis W q function in radial basis function networks (RBFN). Initially, an RBFN is used to discriminate between entangled and disentangled bipartite of qubit states. The kernel used is based on the Lambert-Tsallis W q function for q ∈ {1/2, 3/2, 2} and the quantum relative disentropy is used as a distance measure between quantum states. Entangled states with concurrence larger than 0.1 were correctly classified by the proposed RBFN in at least 97% of the cases. Following, a RBFN with the same kernel is used to estimate the probability density function of a set of data sampled according to Normal and Cauchy distributions.
Thermal free entanglement of a Λ -type three
We explore quantum speed limit time τ QSL of a qubit system coupling to a spin chain environment which is described by an extended Ising model associated with non-trivial topological characterization. For an initial pure state, we find that τ QSL exhibits a behavior of local maximum around all critical points when the environment spin chain undergoes a topological quantum phase transition driven by external magnetic field λ or the anisotropy γ of nearest-neighbor interaction. And the value of local maximum would increase by strengthening the coupling between the system and environment around the critical points. However, the behavior of τ QSL are both driving parameters and critical points dependent when the topological quantum phase transition is driven by the threesite interaction α or its anisotropy δ. Additionally, we also investigate τ QSL for arbitrary time-evolution state in the whole dynamics process and find that τ QSL exhibits a behavior of oscillation at non-critical points. However, τ QSL will decay rapidly to zero around all critical points, and such trend accompany with oscillation behavior at some critical points.
Cross-validation is one of the important tools in machine learning, which is generally used for performance evaluation. It uses different portions of the data to test and train a model on different iterations, which leads to a high computational cost. In this paper, we present a quantum version of k-fold cross-validation to choose a good parameter for the nearest neighbor classification algorithm with a threshold t, where the classification performance is estimated efficiently. With the help of amplitude amplification and estimation, the proposed quantum algorithm achieves a polynomial speedup on the number of samples over its classical counterpart.
Cross-validation is one of the important tools in machine learning, which is generally used for performance evaluation. It uses different portions of the data to test and train a model on different iterations, which leads to a high computational cost. In this paper, we present a quantum version of k-fold cross-validation to choose a good parameter for the nearest neighbor classification algorithm with a threshold t, where the classification performance is estimated efficiently. With the help of amplitude amplification and estimation, the proposed quantum algorithm achieves a polynomial speedup on the number of samples over its classical counterpart.
This Letter presents a three-qubit quantum error correction scheme that adopts the optimal universal 1 → 2 quantum cloning transformation U to encode an unknown state |φ |0 |0 into a three-qubit state U |φ |0 |0 . The encoded state could protect against collective decoherences that any two qubits in a three-qubit system are affected by either phase error or bit flip error, or simultaneously affected by both of them. To recover the original unknown state, we just need to perform a Bell measurement on the first two qubits and rotate the third qubit along a suitable axis. Specially, our scheme for the first time shows that quantum cloning is useful for quantum error correction.
We investigate quantum correlations of the N -qubit states via a collective pseudo-spin interaction (∝ J 2 y ) on arbitrary pure separable states for a given interval of time. Based on this dynamical generation of the N -qubit maximal entangled states, a quantum secret sharing protocol with N continuous classical secrets is developed.
We propose an experimental scheme to realize the ancilla-free 1 → M economic phase-covariant quantum cloning of the equatorial qubit and qutrit. The cloning is implemented by the resonant interaction of the atoms with cavity field of a high-Q cavity. The scheme is deterministic and basic quantum operations to realize schemes may be realized with the current experimental technology.
The schemes on quantum dense coding and teleportation [Phys. Lett. A 364 (2007)  7] are revisited. By reformulizing one-dimensional n-qubit cluster states, we decompose the necessary multi-qubit collective unitary operation into a sequence of single-qubit Hadamard (H) and two-qubit controlled-not (C ) operations. Our reduction makes the schemes feasible today.
In the introductory paper [L.B. Kish, Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009)  911], about noise-based logic, we showed how simple superpositions of single logic basis vectors can be achieved in a single wire. The superposition components were the N orthogonal logic basis vectors. Supposing that the different logic values have "on/off" states only, the resultant discrete superposition state represents a single number with N bit accuracy in a single wire, where N is the number of orthogonal logic vectors in the base. In the present Letter, we show that the logic hyperspace (product) vectors defined in the introductory paper can be generalized to provide the discrete superposition of 2 N orthogonal system states. This is equivalent to a multi-valued logic system with 2 2 N logic values per wire. This is a similar situation to quantum informatics with N qubits, and hence we introduce the notion of noise-bit. This system has major differences compared to quantum informatics. The noise-based logic system is deterministic and each superposition element is instantly accessible with the high digital accuracy, via a real hardware parallelism, without decoherence and error correction, and without the requirement of repeating the logic operation many times to extract the probabilistic information. Moreover, the states in noise-based logic do not have to be normalized, and non-unitary operations can also be used. As an example, we introduce a string search algorithm which is O ( √ M) times faster than Grover's quantum algorithm (where M is the number of string entries), while it has the same hardware complexity class as the quantum algorithm.
The bright one-and two-soliton solutions of the coupled mixed derivative nonlinear Schrödinger equations in birefringent optical fibers are obtained by using the Hirota's bilinear method. The investigation on the collision dynamics of the bright vector solitons shows that there exists complete or partial energy switching in this coupled model. Such parametric energy exchanges can be effectively controlled and quantificationally measured by analyzing the collision dynamics of the bright vector solitons. The influence of two types of nonlinear coefficient parameters on the energy of each vector soliton, is also discussed. Based on the significant energy transfer between the two components of each vector soliton, it is feasible to exploit the future applications in the design of logical gates, fiber directional couplers and quantum information processors.
the deterministic six states protocol (6DP) for quantum communication has been developed. This protocol is based on three mutually unbiased bases and four encoding operators. Information is transmitted between the users via two qubits from different bases. Three attacks have been studied; namely intercept-resend attack (IRA), double-CNOT attack (2CNOTA) and quantum man-in-the-middle attack. In this Letter, we show that the IRA and 2CNOTA are not properly addressed. For instance, we show that the probability of detecting Eve in the control mode of the IRA is 70% instead of 50% in the previous study. Moreover, in the 2CNOTA, Eve can only obtain 50% of the data not all of it as argued earlier.
Fig. 1. Corrected graphs.
by D.-C. Li analyzes the transformation between two-qubit mixed states by local operations and classical communication. We show that the proof of the main theorem, Theorem 2.6 in [Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 3610] is not complete. Therefore the generalization of Nielsen's theorem to mixed states still remains an open problem.
The electronic structure of the E 2 defect in quartz is investigated for the first time by the pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy. The temperature dependence of the longitudinal and transverse relaxations and the possible mechanisms lying behind are carefully characterized. With the pulsed electron-nuclear double resonance spectroscopy, a magnetically coupled proton is confirmed to exist in the E 2 center. The observed long T 2 over 260 μs at 60 K, as well as the well-separated energy levels arising from the proton-coupled electron-nuclear structure, makes E 2 center a good candidate for quantum memory in quantum computing.
We analyze a region of fidelities for qubit which is obtained after an application of a 1 → N universal quantum cloner. We express the allowed region for fidelities in terms of overlaps of pure states with irreps of S n (n = N + 1) showing that the pure states can be taken with real coefficients only. Subsequently, the case n = 4, corresponding to a 1 → 3 cloner is studied in more details as an illustrative example. To obtain the main result, we make a convex hull of possible ranges of fidelities related to a given irrep. The formalism allows to construct the state giving rise to a given N-tuple of fidelities.
We carry out probabilistic phase-space sampling of mesoscopic Schrödinger cat quantum states, demonstrating multipartite Bell violations for up to 60 qubits. We use states similar to those generated in photonic and ion-trap experiments. These results show that mesoscopic quantum superpositions are directly accessible to probabilistic sampling, and we analyze the properties of sampling errors. We also demonstrate dynamical simulation of super-decoherence in ion traps. Our computer simulations can be either exponentially faster or slower than experiment, depending on the correlations measured.
A method for the preparation of an arbitrary quantum state of two qubits is proposed.
A universal entangler is quantum gate able to transform any disentangled state into an entangled state. Although universal entanglers are abundant in arbitrary high dimensional spaces, to verify if a quantum gate is a universal entangler is a hard task since it is not known which property of the unitary matrix is responsible for such behavior. In this direction, the present work shows the results of an algorithm based on differential evolution that tests universal entanglers in C 3 ⊗ C 4 and C 4 ⊗ C 4 . We present two good candidates for each cited space and we show that a candidate found in the literature is not a universal entangler.
We generalize nonadiabatic holonomic quantum computation in a resonant configuration proposed in 
Quantum state after measuring a degenerate observable is given by Lüders and von Neumann state update rules. While the former preserves superpositions, the latter does not. Even though both rules are valid and realizable, which rule a given measuring device ("Black Box") obeys, depends on its internal details. Recently Hegerfeldt and Mayato (2012) [5] had formulated a protocol to discriminate between the two kinds of measuring devices. Here we have reformulated this protocol for system and measuring qubits. We then experimentally investigated this protocol on an NMR spectrometer, and found that Lüders rule is favoured.
Extremum of 1 -norm is used for obtaining the braid operator from the Yang-Baxter operator for Z 3 parafermions.
We address the possibility of using even/odd states of orbital angular momentum (OAM) of photons for the quantum information tasks. Single photon qubit states and two photon entangled states in even/ odd basis of OAM are considered. We present a method for the tomography and general projective measurement in even/odd basis. With the general projective measurement, we show the Bell violation and quantum cryptography with Bell's inequality. We also describe hyper and hybrid entanglement of even/odd OAM states along with polarization, which can be applied in the implementation of quantum protocols like super dense coding.
Continuous variable network with non-Gaussian gate prepares Schrodinger cat state.
remission. Significant predictors of medical costs (pϽ0.05) were disease activity, disease history for both groups, age and employment status for CD subjects and previous colectomy for UC subjects. CONCLUSIONS: Our analyses show that medical costs of patients with IBD can in part be predicted. However, predictors differ between CD and UC patients: Disease activity and disease history are the most important cost predictors, while age and employment status are only important cost predictors for CD patients.
We propose a simple scheme for implementing resilient two-qubit entangling gates in universal cavity QED systems. The technique employs suitably designed laser pulse with modulated amplitude and phase to decrease residual qubit-cavity entanglement that reduces the fidelity of the desired entangling operation. Numerical simulations suggest that the optimized gates are robust against errors in gate time, frequency detuning, atom-field coupling constant and pulse amplitude. Moreover, the optimized gates provide increased robustness to cavity decay as well as strong suppression of atomic spontaneous emissions. With modest experimental parameters the scheme could enable a high gate fidelity exceeding 99% in realistic scenarios.
Entanglement in quantum systems is usually degraded by interaction with the environment. From time to time, some parties of a multipartite entangled system may become decoherent with other parties of the system due to the interference with the environment. In this situation, it is interesting to know how much information the residual system would keep on carrying. In this paper, as a starting point for any entangled system, we investigate the property of the 2 × N × M state with qubit being disentangled, which is characterized by the measurement of robustness.
A measurement-induced continuous-variable logical gate is able to prepare Schrödinger cat states if the gate uses a non-Gaussian resource state, such as cubic phase state (I.V. 
In this study, the quantum Rényi entropy power inequality of order 𝑝 > 1 and power 𝜅 is introduced as a quantum analog of the classical Rényi-𝑝 entropy power inequality. To derive this inequality, we first exploit the Wehrl-𝑝 entropy power inequality on bosonic Gaussian systems via the mixing operation of quantum convolution, which is a generalized beam-splitter operation. This observation directly provides a quantum Rényi-𝑝 entropy power inequality over a quasi-probability distribution for 𝐷-mode bosonic Gaussian regimes. The proposed inequality is expected to be useful for the nontrivial computing of quantum channel capacities, particularly universal upper bounds on bosonic Gaussian quantum channels, and a Gaussian entanglement witness in the case of Gaussian amplifier via squeezing operations.
A measurement-induced continuous-variable logical gate is able to prepare Schrödinger cat states if the gate uses a non-Gaussian resource state, such as cubic phase state (I.V. 
We consider quantum graph states that can be mapped to directed weighted graphs, also known as directed networks. The geometric measure of entanglement of the states is calculated for the quantum graph states corresponding to arbitrary graphs. We find relationships between the entanglement and the properties of the corresponding graphs. Namely, we obtain that the geometric measure of entanglement of a qubit with other qubits in the graph state is related to the weights of ingoing and outgoing arcs with respect to the vertex representing the qubit, outdegree and indegree of the corresponding vertex in the graph. For unweighted and undirected graphs, the entanglement depends on the degree of the corresponding vertex. Quantum protocol for quantifying of the entanglement of the quantum graph states is constructed. As an example, a quantum graph state corresponding to a chain is examined, and the entanglement of the state is calculated on AerSimulator.
The exciting new features of entanglement are burgeoning with revolutionary new advances in the areas of quantum communication, quantum information processing and quantum computing. We review recent theoretical studies and applications of pure and mixed states entanglement of trapped ions interacting with a laser field. After an introduction to the basic concepts of traditional entanglement measures and methodology, the main phenomena and observations of two-, three-and four-level systems are summarized. In particular, we explore the influence of the various parameters of these systems on the entanglement. The particular advantages of using atomic Wehrl entropy and Shannon entropy are highlighted. A general expression of the mixed state entanglement is obtained with the physical significance and without the diagonal approximation. Based on this result, we provide a general expression for the entanglement in a multi-level system. We show that the mixedstate and specific eigenstates of the two or three-level system posses remarkable entanglement properties that can reveal new insight into quantum correlations present in the multi-level models. Furthermore, we propose an intuitive picture of the behavior of mixed-state entanglement in the presence of the decoherence. After a short presentation of the entanglement measures of two qubits, each defined as an effective two-level system (negativity, Bures metric and concurrence) we discuss the general behaviors of the concurrence as a measure of entanglement. We identify and numerically demonstrate the region of parameters where significantly large entanglement can be obtained. Most interestingly, it is shown that features of the entanglement are influenced significantly when the multiphoton process is involved.
The ability to manipulate light at the level of single photons, its elementary excitation quanta, has recently made it possible to produce a rich variety of tailor-made quantum states and arbitrary quantum operations, of high interest for fundamental science and applications. Here we present a concise review of the progress made over the last few decades in the engineering of quantum light states. Although far from exhaustive, this review aims at providing a sufficiently wide and updated introduction that may serve as the entry point to such a fascinating and rapidly evolving field.
We propose metasurface holograms as a novel platform to generate optical trap arrays for cold atoms with high quality, efficiency, and thermal stability. We developed design and fabrication methods to create dielectric, phase-only metasurface holograms based on titanium dioxide. We experimentally demonstrated optical trap arrays of various geometries, including periodic and aperiodic configurations with dimensions ranging from 1D to 3D and up to a few hundred trap sites. We characterized the performance of the holographic metasurfaces in terms of the positioning accuracy, size and intensity uniformity of the generated traps, and power handling capability of the dielectric metasurfaces. Our proposed platform has great potential for enabling fundamental studies of quantum many-body physics, and quantum simulation and computation tasks. The compact form factor, passive nature, good power handling capability, and scalability of generating high-quality, large-scale arrays also make the metasurface platform uniquely suitable for realizing field-deployable devices and systems based on cold atoms.
Encoding quantum information into a set of harmonic oscillators is considered a hardware efficient approach to mitigate noise for reliable quantum information processing. Various codes have been proposed to encode a qubit into an oscillator -including cat codes, binomial codes and Gottesman-Kitaev-Preskill (GKP) codes -and are among the first to reach a breakeven point for quantum error correction. Though GKP codes are widely recognized for their promise in quantum computation, they also facilitate near-optimal quantum communication rates in bosonic channels and offer the ability to safeguard arbitrary quantum states of oscillators. This review focuses on the basic working mechanism, performance characterization, and the many applications of GKP codes-emphasizing recent experimental progress in superconducting circuit architectures and theoretical advancements in multimode GKP qubit codes and oscillators-to-oscillators (O2O) codes. We begin with a preliminary continuousvariable formalism needed for bosonic codes. We then proceed to the quantum engineering involved to physically realize GKP states. We take a deep dive into GKP stabilization and preparation in superconducting architectures and examine proposals for realizing GKP states in the optical domain (along with a concise review of GKP realization in trapped-ion platforms). Finally, we present multimode GKP qubits and GKP-O2O codes, examine code performance and discuss applications of GKP codes in quantum information processing tasks such as computing, communication, and sensing.
Interference, which refers to the phenomenon associated with the superposition of waves, has played a crucial role in the advancement of physics and finds a wide range of applications in physical and engineering measurements. Interferometers are experimental setups designed to observe and manipulate interference. With the development of technology, many quantum interferometers have been discovered and have become cornerstone tools in the field of quantum physics. Quantum interferometers not only explore the nature of the quantum world but also have extensive applications in quantum information technology, such as quantum communication, quantum computing, and quantum measurement. In this review, we analyze and summarize three typical quantum interferometers: the Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interferometer, the N00N state interferometer, and the Franson interferometer. We focus on the principles and applications of these three interferometers. In the principles section, we present the theoretical models for these interferometers, including single-mode theory and multi-mode theory. In the applications section, we review the applications of these interferometers in quantum communication, computation, and measurement. We hope that this review article will promote the development of quantum interference in both fundamental science and practical engineering applications.
Control over the amplitude, phase, and spatial distribution of visible-spectrum light underlies many technologies, but commercial solutions remain bulky, require high control power, and are often too slow. Active integrated photonics for visible light promises a solution, especially with recent materials and fabrication advances. In this review, we discuss three growing application spaces which rely on control of visible light: control and measurement of atomic quantum technologies, augmented-reality displays, and measurement and control of biological systems. We then review the commercial dynamic surfaces and bulk systems which currently provide visible-light modulation and the current state-of-the-art integrated solutions. Throughout the review we focus on speed, control power, size, optical bandwidth, and technological maturity when comparing technologies.
We derive the exact reduced dynamics of a central two-qubit system in a spin star configuration. The exact evolution of the reduced system density matrix is obtained and we compute the limit of an infinite number of environment spins. Initially pure states of the central system evolve into mixed ones and we determine the decoherence-free states of the model. The long-time behavior is studied, partial decoherence is shown to be a result of the coupling of the qubits to the environment, and entanglement evolution of the central system is investigated.
We study the AEJ random-plaquette Z 2 gauge model (RPGM) in three spatial dimensions, a three-dimensional analog of the two-dimensional AEJ random-bond Ising model (RBIM). The model is a pure Z 2 gauge theory in which randomly chosen plaquettes (occurring with concentration p) have couplings with the ''wrong sign'' so that magnetic flux is energetically favored on these plaquettes. Excitations of the model are one-dimensional ''flux tubes'' that terminate at ''magnetic monopoles'' located inside lattice cubes that contain an odd number of wrongsign plaquettes. Electric confinement can be driven by thermal fluctuations of the flux tubes, by the quenched background of magnetic monopoles, or by a combination of the two. Like the RBIM, the RPGM has enhanced symmetry along a ''Nishimori line'' in the p-T plane (where T is the temperature). The critical concentration p c of wrong-sign plaquettes at the confinement-Higgs phase transition along the Nishimori line can be identified with the accuracy threshold for robust storage of quantum information using topological error-correcting codes: if qubit phase errors, qubit bit-flip errors, and errors in the measurement of local check operators all occur at rates below p c , then encoded quantum information can be protected perfectly from damage in the limit of a large code block. Through Monte-Carlo simulations, we measure p c0 , the critical concentration along the T ¼ 0 axis (a lower bound on p c ), finding p c0 ¼ :0293 AE :0002. We also measure the critical concentration of antiferromagnetic bonds in the two-dimensional RBIM on the T ¼ 0 axis, finding p c0 ¼ :1031 AE :0001. Our value of p c0 is incompatible with the value of p c ¼ :
A brief review of the history and drama of the development of quantum theory is given starting from Plank's quantum hypothesis exactly a 100 years ago all the way up to the modern developments in the theory of quantum measurement. It is shown that before the rise of quantum mechanics 75 years ago, the quantum theory had appeared "rst in the form of the statistics of quantum thermal noise and quantum spontaneous jumps which have never been explained by quantum mechanics. This led to numerous quantum paradoxes, some of them due to the great inventors of quantum theory such as Einstein and SchroK dinger. They are reconsidered in this paper. The development of quantum measurement theory, initiated by von Neumann, indicated a possibility for resolution of this interpretational crisis by divorcing, the algebra of the dynamical generators from the subalgebra of the actual observables. It is shown that within this approach quantum causality can be rehabilitated in the form of a superselection rule for compatibility of past observables with the potential future. This rule, together with the self-compatibility of measurements insuring the consistency of histories, is called the nondemolition principle. The application of this rule in the form of the dynamical commutation relations leads to the derivation of the von Neumann projection postulate, and also to the more general reductions, instantaneous, spontaneous, and even continuous in time. This gives a quantum probabilistic solution, in the form of the dynamical "ltering equations, of the notorious measurement problem which was tackled unsuccessfully by many famous physicists starting with SchroK dinger and Bohr. The simplest Markovian quantum stochastic model for the continuous-time measurements involves a boundary-value problem in second quantization for input `o!era waves in one extra dimension, and a reduction of the algebra of `actuala observables to an Abelian subalgebra for the output waves.
Optical analogues of several mesoscopic structures are presented. Classical or quantum optical analogies are found for tunnelling mesoscopic devices in the electron ballistic regime, for quantum interference devices, quantum wells with nonlinear e!ects, and for the electron spin operator. Mesoscopic set-ups analogous to optical set-ups for classical optical experiments, interaction-free imaging and quantum computing are also presented.
A non-linear quantum state transformation is presented. The transformation, which operates on pairs of spin-l/2, can be used to distinguish optimally between two non-orthogonal states. Similar transformations applied locally on each component of an entangled pair of spin-l/2 can be used to transform a mixed non-local state into a quasi-pure maximally entangled singlet state. In both cases the transformation makes use of the basic building block of the quantum computer, namely the quantum-XOR gate. @
Cooperative effects in general dissipation of qubits are investigated. The qubits are decohered collectively. There exist coherence-preserving states, for which decoherence is much reduced. A scheme is proposed for reducing collective decoherence by encoding general input states of the qubits into the corresponding coherence-preserving states. @
The celebrated Black-Scholes di erential equation provides for the price of a ÿnancial derivative. The uncertainty environment of such option price can be described by the classical 'bit': a system with two possible states. This paper argues for the introduction of a di erent uncertainty environment characterized by the so called 'qubit'. We obtain an information-based option price and discuss the di erences between this option price and the classical option price.
16 mWm -2 , or less than half of that expected in the absence of geochemical differentiation 12  . The surface temperature gradient depends on the integrated crustal radioactivity as well as the mantle heat ¯ux, and may vary from 6 K km -1 (where the crustal contribution is not important) to more than 20 K km -1 (where it dominates). If the surface temperature is 200 K, the base of the permafrost is at a depth of between 11 and 3 km. Low geothermal gradients early in martian history are also suggested by geophysical estimates of the effective elastic thickness of more than 100 km beneath the Tharsis volcanoes 21  .
Transistors have continuously reduced in size and increased in switching speed since their invention in 1947. The exponential pace of transistor evolution has led to a revolution in information acquisition, processing and communication technologies. And reigning over most digital applications is a single device structure -the field-effect transistor (FET). But as device dimensions approach the nanometre scale, quantum effects become increasingly important for device operation, and conceptually new transistor structures may need to be adopted. A notable example of such a structure is the single-electron transistor, or SET 1-4 . Although it is unlikely that SETs will replace FETs in conventional electronics, they should prove useful in ultra-low-noise analog applications. Moreover, because it is not affected by the same technological limitations as the FET, the SET can approach closely the quantum limit of sensitivity. It might also be a useful read-out device for a solid-state quantum computer.
Quantum computers promise to increase greatly the ef®ciency of solving problems such as factoring large integers, combinatorial optimization and quantum physics simulation. One of the greatest challenges now is to implement the basic quantumcomputational elements in a physical system and to demonstrate that they can be reliably and scalably controlled. One of the earliest proposals for quantum computation is based on implementing a quantum bit with two optical modes containing one photon. The proposal is appealing because of the ease with which photon interference can be observed. Until now, it suffered from the requirement for non-linear couplings between optical modes containing few photons. Here we show that ef®cient quantum computation is possible using only beam splitters, phase shifters, single photon sources and photo-detectors. Our methods exploit feedback from photo-detectors and are robust against errors from photon loss and detector inef®ciency. The basic elements are accessible to experimental investigation with current technology.
was observed. Jupiter's magnetosphere has been known since the Pioneer encounters to be highly compressible and to vary rapidly and dramatically in size with changes in solar wind dynamic pressure 17 . Moreover, previous studies have demonstrated a correlation between changes in solar-wind pressure and changes in the intensity of auroral emissions at both infrared and radio wavelengths 3,4  . Although uncertainties in the simulation, and the fact that Jupiter and ACE were offset from each other by about 438 in ecliptic longitude, prevent us from identifying an exact solar-wind feature to match the ¯are observation, it is not unreasonable to speculate that a sharp jump in dynamic pressure at Jupiter's day side magnetopause produced the disturbance that manifested itself in the polar-cap ¯are. The solar-wind conditions at this time were not unusual, which suggests that such ¯ares, if indeed triggered by changes in solar-wind pressure, may not be uncommon. We note that responses of Earth's aurora to solar-wind dynamic pressure pulses are well known, both as rapid global brightenings associated with the passage of interplanetary shocks 
progression 2 , and these processes are not mutually exclusive. Over time, it is the balance between enhancers and suppressors of metastasis that will determine the rate of tumour progression (see Fig. 
than destroying it and starting again. Ribosome assembly is a complex, energy-intensive process, and it is not hard to imagine that the thrifty repair of damaged rRNA would be preferable to disassembling or discarding an entire ribosomal particle. Likewise, it takes several hours to produce full-length mRNA copies of large genes, so the repair of damaged copies might make energetic sense. The repair of truncated tRNAs has been documented 11 , so even the repair of single chemically damaged bases in tRNAs does not seem unreasonable. Most of these RNAs exist as partial duplexes; it will be interesting to see whether AlkB and its relatives repair double-stranded RNA as efficiently as they do the single-stranded variety.
Quantum physics aims another blow at common sense: a simple quantum computer gives the right answer, even when it is not run.
Five years ago, if you' d have asked anyone working in quantum computing how long it would take to make a genuinely useful machine, they' d probably have said it was too far off even to guess. But not any longer.
Crystal imperfections known as nitrogen-vacancy defects give some diamonds a characteristic pink colour. Appropriately manipulated, these defects might have rosy prospects as the 'qubits' of a quantum computer.
Relative distance by mediating both the immune and neural functions. On stimulation with the MOG peptide antigen, T cells from Cryab -/-mice proliferated more and secreted higher levels of inflammatory cytokines than did those from EAE controls. Other immune cells, macrophages, were also hyper-reactive, producing high levels of cytokines after challenge with lipopolysaccharide, a well-characterized macrophage stimulant. In addition, increased numbers of glial cells underwent programmed cell death in the inflamed central nervous system of Cryab -/-mice with EAE, extending in vitro studies 8 that suggested Cryab could protect these cells.
ow much absurdity can you take? If you are a mathematician or a quantum physicist, the answer is probably quite a lot. Topologists, for example, regard a coffee mug and a doughnut as essentially one and the same: two different variations on a basic shape-with-a-hole-in-it theme. Quantum-computer enthusiasts are happy to deal with the idea of 'qubits' that can be ones and zeroes at the same time. Condensed-matter physicists have no problem with the idea that electrons can break up into 'quasiparticles' with fractional charges -a third that of one of the original electrons, say. And theorists are happy to accept that there are particles called anyons that live only in two dimensions and are part electric charge, part magnetic flux.
And there are other questions. For instance, how do grid cells represent threedimensional space during flying? Another puzzle is that in the event that certain behaviours cause bats' grid cells to become modulated by theta rhythms, do these cells fire across successive theta phases to encode sequences of spatial locations as rat grid cells do 14 ? Regardless of the answers, bats have earned a place as essen tial participants in the formulation of future theories of gridcell activity.
Quantum computing is plagued by noise and small errors. An approach based on topological techniques reduces the sensitivity to errors and boosts the prospects for building practical quantum computers.
Ultra-pure synthetic diamonds offer advances in fields from quantum computing to cancer diagnostics.
hen asked what he likes best about working for Google, physicist John Martinis does not mention the famous massage chairs in the hallways, or the free snacks available just about anywhere at the company's campus in Mountain View, California. Instead, he marvels at Google's tolerance of failure in pursuit of a visionary goal. "If every project they try works, " he says, "they think they aren't trying hard enough. "
AI and languageevolution researcher on his new Faust opera p.157 TECHNOLOGY Developing the Chinese typewriter was no easy task p.158 An 8-qubit quantum processor built by Rigetti Computing.
founder unless they integrate quantum technologies, warn
An inferno destroyed almost 90% of the museum's snake bank, the largest in Latin America, and a small part of its arachnid collection. Buntantan has
overhead, requiring many physical qubits for each logical qubit.
o the untrained eye, a circuit built with IBM's online Quantum Experience tool looks like something out of an introductory computer-science course. Logic gates, the building blocks of computation, are arrayed on a digital canvas, transforming inputs into outputs.
China's spending on research and development (R&D), as a proportion of gross domestic product (GDP), has increased steadily since 1995.
n cybersecurity circles, they call it Q-day: the day when quantum computers will break the Internet.
he researchers behind the AlphaFold artificial-intelligence (AI) system have won one of this year's US$3-million Breakthrough prizes -the most lucrative awards in science. Demis Hassabis and John Jumper, both at DeepMind in London, were recognized for creating the tool that has predicted the 3D structures of almost every known protein on the planet.
team of researchers in China has unveiled a technique using a rudimentary quantum computer thattheoretically -could crack the most common methods of ensuring digital privacy.
Quantum information in superconducting processors is stored as low-energy microwave photons, but transmitting this information over long distances to build a quantum network requires conversion of lowenergy photons to high-energy optical photons. Laser-cooled rubidium atoms now enable conversion between photons with vastly different energies.
e r v e d .
in the mouth, gut and vagina, and have been linked to other conditions, such as gum disease.
How to introduce quantum computers without slowing economic growth
Electron spin resonance is a standard method for studying the structure of chemical compounds, and it can also be used to control quantum spin states. Combining electron spin resonance with atomic force microscopy allows single spins to be manipulated in single molecules -with potential applications in quantum computing and elsewhere.
algorithms that harness these indicators to estimate a person's 'biological age', which can be higher or lower than their chronological age 3 .
Applications from quantum computing to searches for physics beyond the standard model could benefit from precision control of polyatomic molecules. A method of confining and manipulating single polyatomic molecules held in tightly focused 'optical tweezer' laser arrays at ultracold temperatures could boost progress on all those fronts.
presence of a less evolved inner disk around AB Aur 9 suggests it may not yet have evolved to the gas-accretion phase of giant planet formation. Even if planet formation has begun around AB Aur, the observations presented in Fig. 
We used only FUSE data from the LiF mirror and the A1 detector segment, which have optimal efficiency in the waveband around the O VI line. The data were calibrated and 'cleaned' following standard procedures 28 . The resolution of the final data is ,20 km s 21 , at 1,032 A ˚. We selected for our sample only spectra with signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) per resolution element of .5 at 1,032 A ˚because we were interested in the O VI absorption lines. This selection produced 54 different lines of sight, all with jbj . 208 (because of the high extinction suffered by lines of sight crossing a significant portion of the Galactic disk). In the lowest-quality spectra (S/N < 5), absorption lines with equivalent width larger than ,200 mA ˚are detected at .3j, whereas the highest S/N spectra in our sample guarantee the detection of absorption lines down to an equivalent width of ,20 mA ˚.
relative to q 0 . If this rotation, which does not affect the direction of the electron momentum, is 908, the electron ends up in the perpendicular plane (p o , q 0 ) which started off as the scattering plane after the initial projectile-electron interaction. Because the electron does not take part in the second step, its polar angular distribution remains unchanged leading to a peak at the same angle as in the scattering plane.
scatter event rate which averages 820 ^8 counts per bin, the chance coincidence rate which averages 374 ^6 counts per bin, and the background scatter event rate of 49 ^2 counts per bin. These rates were determined and confirmed using event rates before and after the burst, combined with studies of the readout times of multiple detectors during scattered events, and were verified independently using our Monte Carlo simulations. Although the rotation will average out systematic variations in the scatter angle distribution, we still have to correct for the complex time profile of the burst itself, which will cause variations for an unpolarized source owing to the finite number of potential scatter angles RHESSI can measure at any given instant. We modelled this effect by using the 0.15-2.0 MeV total count rate in the RHESSI instrument (Fig. 
of 3.2 £ 10 12 cm for a prograde orbit of J/(GM BH /c) ¼ 0.52; the last stable retrograde orbit for that spin parameter has a period of 38 min at a radius of 4 £ 10 12 cm). Lense-Thirring precession and viscous (magnetic) torques will gradually force the accreting gas into the black hole's equatorial plane 
result in the desired l/4 de Broglie wave effect 31  . In principle, this can be extended to higher-order interference effects because, obviously, when more than two double-pairs are emitted from the crystal the suppression of all lower-order interferences can be achieved by a proper projection analogous to the N ¼ 4 case.
dot, so there should always be a step at the start of the pulse. The fraction of traces in which this step is nevertheless missed, that is, DI QPC stays below the threshold (blue line in Fig. 
One hundred years ago Albert Einstein introduced the concept of the photon. Although in the early years after 1905 the evidence for the quantum nature of light was not compelling, modern experiments -especially those using photon pairs -have beautifully confirmed its corpuscular character. Research on the quantum properties of light (quantum optics) triggered the evolution of the whole field of quantum information processing, which now promises new technology, such as quantum cryptography and even quantum computers.
last melting in an 
The field of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), traditionally studied in atomic systems 
Humans routinely solve problems of immense computational complexity by intuitively forming simple, low-dimensional heuristic strategies 1,2 . Citizen science (or crowd sourcing) is a way of exploiting this ability by presenting scientific research problems to non-experts. 'Gamification'-the application of game elements in a non-game context-is an effective tool with which to enable citizen scientists to provide solutions to research problems. The citizen science games Foldit 3 , EteRNA 4 and EyeWire 5 have been used successfully to study protein and RNA folding and neuron mapping, but so far gamification has not been applied to problems in quantum physics. Here we report on Quantum Moves, an online platform gamifying optimization problems in quantum physics. We show that human players are able to find solutions to difficult problems associated with the task of quantum computing 6 . Players succeed where purely numerical optimization fails, and analyses of their solutions provide insights into the problem of optimization of a more profound and general nature. Using player strategies, we have thus developed a few-parameter heuristic optimization method that efficiently outperforms the most prominent established numerical methods. The numerical complexity associated with time-optimal solutions increases for shorter process durations. To understand this better, we produced a low-dimensional rendering of the optimization landscape. This rendering reveals why traditional optimization methods fail near the quantum speed limit (that is, the shortest process duration with perfect fidelity) 7-9 . Combined analyses of optimization landscapes and heuristic solution strategies may benefit wider classes of optimization problems in quantum physics and beyond.
Semiconductor nanowires are ideal for realizing various lowdimensional quantum devices. In particular, topological phases of matter hosting non-Abelian quasiparticles (such as anyons) can emerge when a semiconductor nanowire with strong spinorbit coupling is brought into contact with a superconductor 1,2 . To exploit the potential of non-Abelian anyons-which are key elements of topological quantum computing-fully, they need to be exchanged in a well-controlled braiding operation 3-8 . Essential hardware for braiding is a network of crystalline nanowires coupled to superconducting islands. Here we demonstrate a technique for generic bottom-up synthesis of complex quantum devices with a special focus on nanowire networks with a predefined number of superconducting islands. Structural analysis confirms the high crystalline quality of the nanowire junctions, as well as an epitaxial superconductorsemiconductor interface. Quantum transport measurements of nanowire 'hashtags' reveal Aharonov-Bohm and weakantilocalization effects, indicating a phase-coherent system with strong spin-orbit coupling. In addition, a proximity-induced hard superconducting gap (with vanishing sub-gap conductance) is demonstrated in these hybrid superconductor-semiconductor nanowires, highlighting the successful materials development necessary for a first braiding experiment. Our approach opens up new avenues for the realization of epitaxial three-dimensional quantum architectures which have the potential to become key components of various quantum devices.
Majorana zero-modes-a type of localized quasiparticle-hold great promise for topological quantum computing 1 . Tunnelling spectroscopy in electrical transport is the primary tool for identifying the presence of Majorana zero-modes, for instance as a zero-bias peak in differential conductance 2 . The height of the Majorana zero-bias peak is predicted to be quantized at the universal conductance value of 2e 2 /h at zero temperature 3 (where e is the charge of an electron and h is the Planck constant), as a direct consequence of the famous Majorana symmetry in which a particle is its own antiparticle. The Majorana symmetry protects the quantization against disorder, interactions and variations in the tunnel coupling 3-5 . Previous experiments 6 , however, have mostly shown zero-bias peaks much smaller than 2e 2 /h, with a recent observation 7 of a peak height close to 2e 2 /h. Here we report a quantized conductance plateau at 2e 2 /h in the zero-bias conductance measured in indium antimonide semiconductor nanowires covered with an aluminium superconducting shell. The height of our zerobias peak remains constant despite changing parameters such as the magnetic field and tunnel coupling, indicating that it is a quantized conductance plateau. We distinguish this quantized Majorana peak from possible non-Majorana origins by investigating its robustness to electric and magnetic fields as well as its temperature dependence. The observation of a quantized conductance plateau strongly supports the existence of Majorana zero-modes in the system, consequently paving the way for future braiding experiments that could lead to topological quantum computing.
Quantum communication is the art of transferring a quantum state from one place to another. Traditionally, the sender is named Alice and the receiver Bob. Th e basic motivation is that quantum states code quantum information -called qubits in the case of two-dimensional Hilbert spaces -and that quantum information allows tasks to be performed that could only be achieved far less effi ciently, if at all, using classical information. Th e best known example is quantum key distribution (QKD) 1-3 . In fact, there is another motivation, at least equally important to most physicists, namely the close connection between quantum communication and quantum non-locality 4,5 , as illustrated by the fascinating process of quantum teleportation 6 .
Artifi cial crystals of light, consisting of hundreds of thousands of optical microtraps, are routinely created by interfering optical laser beams. These so-called optical lattices act as versatile potential landscapes to trap ultracold quantum gases of bosons and fermions. They form powerful model systems of quantum many-body systems in periodic potentials for probing nonlinear wave dynamics and strongly correlated quantum phases, building fundamental quantum gates or observing Fermi surfaces in periodic potentials. Optical lattices represent a fast-paced modern and interdisciplinary fi eld of research.
Quantum computers can outperform their classical counterparts at some tasks, but the full scope of their power is unclear. A new quantum algorithm hints at the possibility of far-reaching applications.
The spin of a photoluminescent nitrogen centre in diamond has a long life-time that could be useful as a qubit, for example. It's diffi cult enough to image such a single spin -imagine using that bright spin to detect nearby invisible 'dark' spins.
Coherent manipulation of a large number of qubits and the generation of entangled states between them has been an important goal and benchmark in quantum information science, leading to various applications such as measurement-based quantum computing 1 and high-precision quantum metrology 2 . However, the experimental preparation of multiparticle entanglement remains challenging. Using atoms 3,4 , entangled states of up to eight qubits have been created, and up to six photons 5 have been entangled. Here, by exploiting both the photons' polarization and momentum degrees of freedom, we experimentally generate hyper-entangled six-, eight-and ten-qubit Schrödinger cat states with verified genuine multi-qubit entanglement. We also demonstrate super-resolving phase measurements enhanced by entanglement, with a precision to beat the standard quantum limit. Modifications of the experimental set-up would enable the generation of other graph states up to ten qubits. Our method offers a way of expanding the effective Hilbert space and should provide a versatile test-bed for various quantum applications.
For a 'real life' quantum computer, mere capability is not good enough. It also has to defy disturbances attempting to weaken its special powers. To succeed, the task has to be addressed on various levels.
Observing coherent coupling between two quantum objects in the solid state is hard enough at millikelvin temperatures. Now, this has been achieved at room temperature -using nitrogen defects in diamond -opening up an avenue to practical quantum computing.
A 'real life' quantum computer requires well-protected qubits, as available in quantum optical systems, and scalability, usually the domain of solid-state devices. Polar molecules integrated with superconducting stripline resonators might offer the best of both worlds.
Quantum teleportation in itself is intriguing. But now the combined states of two photons have been teleported -while preserving their entanglement -and this could bring large-scale quantum communication and computation a step closer.
Electron spins confi ned within quantum dots are potential qubits for quantum information processing. But how to couple the dots? Optical probing of spherical structures that contain two concentric coupled quantum dots leads the way.
Quantum information is an active area of physics, but is it also one of long-lasting signifi cance? Judging by the mere elegance of a new approach for handling imperfections in quantum registers, the answer must be 'yes'.
What more for solar neutrinos? The KamLAND experiment is being upgraded and cleaned, and the SNO detector is being rebuilt as a scintillator detector (called SNO+). Including Borexino, all three of these detectors will be able to target low-energy solar neutrinos, including the so-called CNO neutrinos: these arise through a set of reactions, first proposed by Hans Bethe in the 1930s, that are thought to be of minor importance in the Sun but to dominate in slightly heavier stars. Beyond that, next-generation experiments could try to detect the pp neutrinos in real time. The story of solar neutrinos is far from over.
that this leakage rate is per Clifford, they actually quote the value per nanosecond:
The recently theoretical and experimental researches on PT -symmetric system have attracted unprecedented attention because of the various interesting features and potential applications in extending canonical quantum mechanics. However, as the counterpart of PT -symmetry, there are few experimental researches on the anti-PT -symmetric quantum system because of the challenges in simulating anti-PT -symmetry in experiment. Here, we propose an algorithm for simulating the generalized anti-PT -symmetric system in the quantum circuit model. Utilizing the algorithm, we demonstrated the quantum simulation of anti-PT system experimentally, and an oscillation of information flow is observed in a nuclear magnetic resonance quantum simulator. The experiment showed that the information could recover from the environment completely when the anti-PT -symmetry is broken, whereas no information can be retrieved in the symmetry-unbroken phase. Our work opens the gate for the practical quantum simulation and experimental investigation of universal anti-PT -symmetric system in a quantum computer.
The quantum Cramér-Rao bound sets a fundamental limit on the accuracy of unbiased parameter estimation in quantum systems, relating the uncertainty in determining a parameter to the inverse of the quantum Fisher information. We experimentally demonstrate near saturation of the quantum Cramér-Rao bound in the phase estimation of a solid-state spin system, provided by a nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond. This is achieved by comparing the experimental uncertainty in phase estimation with an independent measurement of the related quantum Fisher information. The latter is independently extracted from coherent dynamical responses of the system under weak parametric modulations, without performing any quantum-state tomography. While optimal parameter estimation has already been observed for quantum devices involving a limited number of degrees of freedom, our method offers a versatile and powerful experimental tool to explore the Cramér-Rao bound and the quantum Fisher information in systems of higher complexity, as relevant for quantum technologies.
Noise is ubiquitous in real quantum systems, leading to non-Hermitian quantum dynamics, and may affect the fundamental states of matter. Here we report in an experiment a quantum simulation of the two-dimensional non-Hermitian quantum anomalous Hall (QAH) model using the nuclear magnetic resonance processor. Unlike the usual experiments using auxiliary qubits, we develop a stochastic average approach based on the stochastic Schrödinger equation to realize the non-Hermitian dissipative quantum dynamics, which has advantages in saving the quantum simulation sources and simplifying the implementation of quantum gates. We demonstrate the stability of dynamical topology against weak noise and observe two types of dynamical topological transitions driven by strong noise. Moreover, a region where the emergent topology is always robust regardless of the noise strength is observed. Our work shows a feasible quantum simulation approach for dissipative quantum dynamics with stochastic Schrödinger equation and opens a route to investigate non-Hermitian dynamical topological physics.
Quantum simulation enables study of many-body systems in non-equilibrium by mapping to a controllable quantum system, providing a powerful tool for computational intractable problems. Here, using a programmable quantum processor with a chain of 10 superconducting qubits interacted through tunable couplers, we simulate the one-dimensional generalized Aubry-André-Harper model for three different phases, i.e., extended, localized and critical phases. The properties of phase transitions and many-body dynamics are studied in the presence of quasi-periodic modulations for both off-diagonal hopping coefficients and on-site potentials of the model controlled respectively by adjusting strength of couplings and qubit frequencies. We observe the spin transport for initial single-and multi-excitation states in different phases, and characterize phase transitions by experimentally measuring dynamics of participation entropies. Our experimental results demonstrate that the recently developed tunable coupling architecture of superconducting processor extends greatly the simulation realms for a wide variety of Hamiltonians, and can be used to study various quantum and topological phenomena.
SiGe heteroepitaxial growth yields pristine host material for quantum dot qubits, but residual interface disorder can lead to qubit-to-qubit variability that might pose an obstacle to reliable SiGe-based quantum computing. By convolving data from scanning tunneling microscopy and high-angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy, we reconstruct 3D interfacial atomic structure and employ an atomistic multi-valley effective mass theory to quantify qubit spectral variability. The results indicate (1) appreciable valley splitting (VS) variability of ~50% owing to alloy disorder and (2) roughness-induced double-dot detuning bias energy variability of order 1-10 meV depending on well thickness. For measured intermixing, atomic steps have negligible influence on VS, and uncorrelated roughness causes spatially fluctuating energy biases in double-dot detunings potentially incorrectly attributed to charge disorder. Our approach yields atomic structure spanning orders of magnitude larger areas than post-growth microscopy or tomography alone, enabling more holistic predictions of disorder-induced qubit variability.
We develop a nonequilibrium increment method in quantum Monte Carlo simulations to obtain the Rényi entanglement entropy of various quantum many-body systems with high efficiency and precision. To demonstrate its power, we show the results on a few important yet difficult (2 + 1)d quantum lattice models, ranging from the Heisenberg quantum antiferromagnet with spontaneous symmetry breaking, the quantum critical point with O(3) conformal field theory (CFT) to the toric code Z 2 topological ordered state and the Kagome Z 2 quantum spin liquid model with frustration and multi-spin interactions. In all these cases, our method either reveals the precise CFT data from the logarithmic correction or extracts the quantum dimension in topological order, from the dominant area law in finite-size scaling, with very large system sizes, controlled errorbars, and minimal computational costs. Our method, therefore, establishes a controlled and practical computation paradigm to obtain the difficult yet important universal properties in highly entangled quantum matter.
Science 360, eaaq1392 (
Finding ground states of given Hamiltonians is crucial for quantum simulation -a promising application of quantum computers. An algorithm now finds these states using minimal resources, making it implementable in near-term noisy devices.
Half of the 2019 Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to James Peebles "for theoretical discoveries in physical cosmology" and the other half is shared by Michel Mayor and Didier Queloz "for the discovery of an exoplanet orbiting a solar-type star".
A rare-earth ion in a long-lived clock state can control a nearby ensemble of nuclear spins. Interfacing this pristine photon emitter with a small quantum processor may be a route towards making identical solid-state nodes for quantum networks.
Cells can sense the mechanical properties of their environment. by adjusting the ruffling of their membranes, cells respond to different viscosities of their surrounding liquid medium.
The design of efficient and robust pulse sequences is a fundamental requirement in quantum control. Numerical methods can be used for this purpose, but with relatively little insight into the control mechanism. Here, we show that the free rotation of a classical rigid body plays a fundamental role in the control of two-level quantum systems by means of external electromagnetic pulses. For a state to state transfer, we derive a family of control fields depending upon two free parameters, which allow us to adjust the efficiency, the time and the robustness of the control process. As an illustrative example, we consider the quantum analog of the tennis racket effect, which is a geometric property of any classical rigid body. This effect is demonstrated experimentally for the control of a spin 1/2 particle by using techniques of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. We also show that the dynamics of a rigid body can be used to implement one-qubit quantum gates. In particular, non-adiabatic geometric quantum phase gates can be realized based on the Montgomery phase of a rigid body. The robustness issue of the gates is discussed.
Landau-Zener (LZ) transition has received renewed interest as an alternative approach to control singlequbit states. An LZ transition occurs when a system passes through an avoided crossing that arises from quantum mechanical coupling of two levels, taking the system to a coherent superposition of the two states. Then, multiple LZ transitions induce interference known as Landau-Zener-Stückelberg (LZS) interference whose amplitude strongly depends on the velocity or adiabaticity of the passage. Here, we study the roles of LZ transitions and LZS interference in coherent charge oscillations of a one-electron semiconductor double quantum dot by time-domain experiments using standard rectangular voltage pulses. By employing density matrix simulations, we show that, in the standard setup using rectangular pulses, even a small distortion of the pulse can give rise to LZ transitions and hence LZS interference, which significantly enhances the measured oscillation amplitude. We further show experimentally that the nature of the coherent charge oscillations changes from Rabi-type to LZS oscillations with increasing pulse distortion. Our results thus demonstrate that it is essential to take into account LZS interference for both precise control of charge qubits and correct interpretation of measurement results.
We present novel theory of effective realization of large-size optical Schrödinger cat states, which play an important role for quantum communication and quantum computation in the optical domain using laser sources. The treatment is based on the α-representation in infinite Hilbert space which is the decomposition of an arbitrary quantum state in terms of displaced number states characterized by the displacement amplitude α. We find analytical form of the α-representation for both even and odd Schrödinger cat states which is essential for their generation schemes. Two schemes are proposed for generating even/odd Schrödinger cat states of large size |β| (|β| ≥ 2) with high fidelity F (F ≈ 0.99). One scheme relies on an initially offline prepared two-mode entangled state with a fixed total photon number, while the other scheme uses separable photon Fock states as the input. In both schemes, generation of the desired states is heralded by the corresponding measurement outcomes. Conditions for obtaining states useful for quantum information processing are established and success probabilities for their generation are evaluated.
theory of quantum path computing with fourier optics and future applications for quantum supremacy, neural networks and nonlinear Schrödinger equations Burhan Gulbahar the scalability, error correction and practical problem solving are important challenges for quantum computing (Qc) as more emphasized by quantum supremacy (QS) experiments. Quantum path computing (Qpc), recently introduced for linear optic based Qcs as an unconventional design, targets to obtain scalability and practical problem solving. it samples the intensity from the interference of exponentially increasing number of propagation paths obtained in multi-plane diffraction (MPD) of classical particle sources. QPC exploits MPD based quantum temporal correlations of the paths and freely entangled projections at different time instants, for the first time, with the classical light source and intensity measurement while not requiring photon interactions or single photon sources and receivers. In this article, photonic QPC is defined, theoretically modeled and numerically analyzed for arbitrary fourier optical or quadratic phase set-ups while utilizing both Gaussian and Hermite-Gaussian source laser modes. problem solving capabilities already including partial sum of Riemann theta functions are extended. important future applications, implementation challenges and open issues such as universal computation and quantum circuit implementations determining the scope of Qc capabilities are discussed. the applications include QS experiments reaching more than 2 100 feynman paths, quantum neuron implementations and solutions of nonlinear Schrödinger equation.
We explore the phase space quantum effects, quantum coherence and non-classicality, for two coupled identical qubits with intrinsic decoherence. the two qubits are in a nonlinear interaction with a quantum field via an intensity-dependent coupling. We investigate the non-classicality via the Wigner functions. We also study the phase space information and the quantum coherence via the Q-function, Wehrl density, and Wehrl entropy. It is found that the robustness of the non-classicality for the superposition of coherent states, is highly sensitive to the coupling constants. The phase space quantum information and the matter-light quantum coherence can be controlled by the two-qubit coupling, initial cavity-field and the intrinsic decoherence. open
Quasi-probability information in an coupled two-qubit system interacting non-linearly with a coherent cavity under intrinsic decoherence" Now reads: "Quasi-probability information in a coupled two-qubit system interacting non-linearly with a coherent cavity under intrinsic decoherence"
We present an open-system quantum-mechanical 3D real-space study of the conduction band structure and conductive properties of two semiconductor systems, interesting for their beyond-Moore and quantum computing applications: phosphorus δ-layers and P δ-layer tunnel junctions in silicon. In order to evaluate size quantization effects on the conductivity, we consider two principal cases: nanoscale finite-width structures, used in transistors, and infinitely-wide structures, electrical properties of which are typically known experimentally. For devices widths W < 10 nm, quantization effects are strong and it is shown that the number of propagating modes determines not only the conductivity, but the distinctive spatial distribution of the current-carrying electron states. For W > 10 nm, the quantization effects practically vanish and the conductivity tends to the infinitely- wide device values. For tunnel junctions, two distinct conductivity regimes are predicted due to the strong conduction band quantization.
When considered as orthogonal bases in distinct vector spaces, the unit vectors of polarization directions and the Laguerre-Gaussian modes of polarization amplitude are inseparable, constituting a so-called classical entangled light beam. Equating this classical entanglement to quantum entanglement necessary for computing purpose, we show that the parallelism featured in Shor's factoring algorithm is equivalent to the concurrent light-path propagation of an entangled beam or pulse train. A gedanken experiment is proposed for executing the key algorithmic steps of modular exponentiation and Fourier transform on a target integer N using only classical manipulations on the amplitudes and polarization directions. The multiplicative order associated with the sought-after integer factors is identified through a four-hole diffraction interference from sources obtained from the entangled beam profile. The unique mapping from the fringe patterns to the computed order is demonstrated through simulations for the case N = 15.
Superconducting integrated circuit is a promising "beyond-CMOS" device technology enables speedof-light, nearly lossless communications to advance cryogenic (4 K or lower) computing. However, the lack of large-area superconducting IC has hindered the development of scalable practical systems. Herein, we describe a novel approach to interconnect 16 high-resolution deep UV (DUV EX4, 248 nm lithography) full reticle circuits to fabricate an extremely large (88 mm × 88 mm) area superconducting integrated circuit (ELASIC). The fabrication process starts by interconnecting four high-resolution DUV EX4 (22 mm × 22 mm) full reticles using a single large-field (44 mm × 44 mm) I-line (365 nm lithography) reticle, followed by I-line reticle stitching at the boundaries of 44 mm × 44 mm fields to fabricate the complete ELASIC field (88 mm × 88 mm). The ELASIC demonstrated a 2X-12X reduction in circuit features and maintained high-stitched line superconducting critical currents. We examined quantum flux parametron circuits to demonstrate the viability of common active components used for data buffering and transmission. Considering that no stitching requirement for high-resolution EX4 DUV reticles is employed, the present fabrication process has the potential to advance the scaling of superconducting qubits and other tri-layer junction-based devices.
This Article contains errors in Figure 
Harmonic current-phase relation in Nb-Al-based superconductor/insulator/normal conductor/insulator/
Critical current fluctuations with a 1 / f spectral density (f is frequency) are potentially a limiting source of intrinsic decoherence in superconducting quantum bits (qubits) based on Josephson tunnel junctions. Prior measurements of this noise were made at nonzero voltages whereas qubits are operated in the zero voltage state. We report measurements of 1 / f noise in a dc superconducting quantum interference device first, coupled to a resonant tank circuit and operated in a dispersive mode at zero voltage, and, second, operated conventionally with a current bias in the voltage regime. Both measurements yield essentially the same magnitude of critical current 1 / f noise.
We report measurements of spin-dependent scattering of conduction electrons by neutral donors in accumulation-mode field-effect transistors formed in isotopically enriched silicon. Spin-dependent scattering was detected using electrically detected magnetic resonance where spectra show resonant changes in the source-drain voltage for conduction electrons and electrons bound to donors. We discuss the utilization of spin-dependent scattering for the readout of donor spin states in silicon based quantum computers.
step implementation of multiqubit conditional phase gating with nitrogenvacancy centers coupled to a high-Q silica microsphere cavity
Single defects in diamond and especially negatively charged nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers are very promising quantum systems with wide applications in physics and biology. It was shown that their coherence properties can be strongly improved by growing ultrapure diamond with low concentration of parasitic spins associated with nitrogen electron spins and nuclear spins related to 13
FIG. 3. (a) and (b) State tomography of the qubit in the evolution of LZSM interference. The real (imaginary) parts of the experimental and numerical simulated density matrix are shown as green (blue) solid bars and red solid (blue dashed) lines, respectively. In (a), the initial state is prepared in j0i at i =2p ¼ À400 MHz. The total evolution time is 40 ns and f =2p is 400 MHz. The density matrix of the qubit at T ¼ 1 ns, 24 ns, and 40 ns are presented, respectively. In (b), the initial state is prepared in 1 ffiffi 2 p j0i þ j1iÞ ð at i =2p ¼ 0. The total evolution time is 160 ns and f =2p is À 200 MHz.
We report on an ion implantation technique utilizing a screening mask made of SiO 2 to control both the depth profile and the dose. By appropriately selecting the thickness of the screening layer, this method fully suppresses the ion channeling, brings the location of the highest nitrogen-vacancy (NV) density to the surface, and effectively reduces the dose by more than three orders of magnitude. With a standard ion implantation system operating at the energy of 10 keV and the dose of 10 11 cm 2 and without an additional etching process, we create single NV centers close to the surface with coherence times of a few tens of ls.
The admittance of a quantum point contact (QPC) is investigated in the ac regime. Resonance-like peaks superimposed on the commonly occurring admittance plateaus are observed. To explore the origin of these peaks, we perform measurements on the sample in perpendicular magnetic fields of different strengths. We find that as the magnetic field increases, the resonance-like peak located at the first admittance plateau disappears, while that at the third plateau becomes more pronounced. Under certain conditions, these peaks can evolve into 0.7 anomalous plateaus. We believe that these resonance-like peaks are caused by the presence of impurities in the QPC. To confirm this, a bias voltage is added to the common gate voltage to generate an asymmetric QPC confinement potential. We then observe an asymmetric evolution of the peaks for both positive and negative bias voltages. The effects of the magnetic field and the bias voltage can be described well by the results of numerical calculation using the finite difference method and taking into account the influence of the impurity. The results of this work should help provide better understanding of charge dynamic transfer and may also be useful for the study of QPC-based devices such as qubits and quantum dots.
We report characterizations of two types of Si triple quantum dot (TQD) devices with charge sensors, with the aim of integrating spin qubits. The QDs of a single TQD device are connected in line to adjacent QD(s), while all QDs are tunnel-coupled to each other in the other device to form a triangle. Both TQD systems are physically defined on silicon-on-insulator substrates using electron beam lithography and dry etching. From electron transport measurements of each type of TQD system at 4.2 K, we demonstrate the formation of tunnel-coupled TQD systems and the tunability of their electric potentials.
A single crystalline InSb nanosheet is an emerging planar semiconductor material with potential applications in electronics, infrared optoelectronics, spintronics, and topological quantum computing. Here, we report on the realization of a quantum dot device from a single crystalline InSb nanosheet grown by molecular-beam epitaxy. The device is fabricated from the nanosheet on a Si/SiO 2 substrate, and quantum dot confinement is achieved by the top gate technique. Transport measurements of the device are carried out at a low temperature in a dilution refrigerator. It is found that the measured charge stability diagram is characterized by a series of small Coulomb diamonds at high plunger gate voltages and a series of large Coulomb diamonds at low plunger gate voltages, demonstrating the formation of a gate-tunable quantum dot in the InSb nanosheet. Gate-defined planar InSb quantum dots offer a renewed platform for developing semiconductor-based quantum computation technology.
One of the biggest challenges impeding the progress of metal-oxide-silicon (MOS) quantum dot devices is the presence of disorder at the Si/SiO 2 interface which interferes with controllably confining single and few electrons. In this work, we have engineered a low-disorder MOS quantum double-dot device with critical electron densities, i.e., the lowest electron density required to support a conducting pathway, approaching critical electron densities reported in high quality Si/SiGe devices and commensurate with the lowest critical densities reported in any MOS device. Utilizing a nearby charge sensor, we show that the device can be tuned to the single-electron regime where charging energies of %8 meV are measured in both dots, consistent with the lithographic size of the dot. Probing a wide voltage range with our quantum dots and charge sensor, we detect three distinct electron traps, corresponding to a defect density consistent with the ensemble measured critical density. Low frequency charge noise measurements at 300 mK indicate a 1/f noise spectrum of 3.4 leV/Hz 1=2 at 1 Hz and magnetospectroscopy measurements yield a valley splitting of 110 6 26 leV. This work demonstrates that reproducible MOS spin qubits are feasible and represent a platform for scaling to larger qubit systems in MOS.
While spin qubits based on gate-defined quantum dots have demonstrated very favorable properties for quantum computing, one remaining hurdle is the need to tune each of them into a good operating regime by adjusting the voltages applied to electrostatic gates. The automation of these tuning procedures is a necessary requirement for the operation of a quantum processor based on gate-defined quantum dots, which is yet to be fully addressed. We present an algorithm for the automated fine-tuning of quantum dots and demonstrate its performance on a semiconductor singlet-triplet qubit in GaAs. The algorithm employs a Kalman filter based on Bayesian statistics to estimate the gradients of the target parameters as a function of gate voltages, thus learning the system response. The algorithm's design is focused on the reduction of the number of required measurements. We experimentally demonstrate the ability to change the operation regime of the qubit within 3-5 iterations, corresponding to 10-15 min of lab-time.
Fiber-coupled single photon sources are considered important components of photonics-based quantum information processors. Most fibercoupled single photon sources require careful alignment between fibers and quantum emitters. In this work, we present an alignment-free fiber-integrated single photon source based on an InAs/InP quantum dot emitting at telecom wavelengths. We designed a nanobeam containing the quantum dots attached to a fiber taper. The adiabatic tapered coupler of the nanobeam enables efficient light coupling to the fiber taper. Using a tungsten probe in a focused ion beam system, we transferred the nanobeam to the fiber taper. The observed fiber-coupled single photon emission occurs with a brightness of 1.4% and a purity of 83%. This device provides a building block for fiber-optic quantum circuits that have various applications, such as quantum communication and distributed quantum computing.
We introduce a silicon metal-oxide-semiconductor quantum dot architecture based on a single polysilicon gate stack. The elementary structure consists of two enhancement gates separated spatially by a gap, one gate forming a reservoir and the other a quantum dot. We demonstrate that, in three devices based on two different versions of this elementary structure, a wide range of tunnel rates is attainable while maintaining single-electron occupation. A characteristic change in the slope of the charge transitions as a function of the reservoir gate voltage, attributed to screening from charges in the reservoir, is observed in all devices and is expected to play a role in the sizable tuning orthogonality of the split enhancement gate structure. The all-silicon process is expected to minimize strain gradients from electrode thermal mismatch, while the single gate layer should avoid issues related to overlayers (e.g., additional dielectric charge noise) and help improve the yield. Finally, reservoir gate control of the tunnel barrier has implications for initialization, manipulation, and readout schemes in multi-quantum dot architectures.
For quantum computing to become fault tolerant, the underlying quantum bits must be effectively isolated from the noisy environment. It is well known that including an electromagnetic bandgap around the qubit operating frequency improves coherence for superconducting circuits. However, investigations of bandgaps to other environmental coupling mechanisms remain largely unexplored. Here, we present a method to enhance the coherence of superconducting circuits by introducing a phononic bandgap around the device operating frequency. The phononic bandgaps block resonant decay of defect states within the gapped frequency range, removing the electromagnetic coupling to phonons at the gap frequencies. We construct a multiscale model that derives the decrease in the density of states due to the bandgap and the resulting increase in defect state T 1 times. We demonstrate that emission rates from in-plane defect states can be suppressed by up to two orders of magnitude. We combine these simulations with theory for resonators operating in the continuous-wave regime and show that improvements in quality factors are expected by up to the enhancement in defect T 1 times. Furthermore, we use full master equation simulation to demonstrate the suppression of qubit energy relaxation even when interacting with 200 defect states. We conclude with an exploration of device implementation including tradeoffs between fabrication complexity and qubit performance.
Various applications of quantum devices call for an accurate calibration of cryogenic amplification chains. To this end, we present an experimentally feasible calibration scheme and use it to accurately measure the total gain and noise temperature of an amplification chain by employing normal-metal-insulator-superconductor (NIS) junctions. Our method is based on the radiation emitted by inelastic electron tunneling across voltage-biased NIS junctions. We derive an analytical expression that relates the generated power to the applied bias voltage which is the only control parameter of the device. After the setup has been characterized using a standard voltage reflection measurement, the total gain and the noise temperature are extracted by fitting the analytical expression to the microwave power measured at the output of the amplification chain. The 1r uncertainty of the total gain of 51.84 dB appears to be of the order of 0.10 dB.
We investigated the optical properties of rare-earth ions (Yb 3þ and Er 3þ ) implanted into lithium niobate (LN) crystals and observed superluminescent emission from a sheet of Yb ions in the Yb-implanted LN crystal (Yb:LN). Moreover, by directly integrating the Er-implanted LN crystal (Er:LN) with a silicon photonic chip with waveguide and resonator structures, we observed the evanescent coupling of photoluminescent light from the Er ions to the optical modes of the waveguide and microcavity. We measured an optical quality factor of about 10 4 and observed a modification of the photoluminescent emission from Er 3þ ions in the integrated structure. The platform can ultimately enable developing the integrated multifunctional quantum photonic devices.
Due to the quantum nature of current flow in single-electron devices, new physical phenomena can manifest when probed at finite frequencies. Here, we present a semiclassical small-signal model approach to replace complex single-electron devices by parametric circuit components that could be readily used in analog circuit simulators. Our approach is based on weakly driven quantum two-level systems, and here, we use it to calculate the low frequency impedance of a single-electron double quantum dot (DQD). We find that the total impedance is composed of three elements that were previously considered separately: a dissipative term, corresponding to the Sisyphus resistance, and two dispersive terms, composed of the quantum and tunneling capacitance. Finally, we combine the parametric terms to understand the interaction of the DQD with a slow classical electrical oscillator which finds applications in nonresonant state readout of quantum bits and parametric amplification.
One barrier to developing quantum information systems based on impurity point defects is that the desirable spin states of the defects are often unstable for Fermi levels obtained at increased impurity concentrations. The space charge induced band bending near the interface of Si/Mg aluminum nitride (AlN) homojunction is investigated computationally as a method to control the concentration, spin state, and position of such point defects. This is done by solving Poisson's equation with the charge density described by a grand canonical defect chemistry model informed by hybrid-functional density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Previous experimental works have found unintentional carbon and oxygen impurities pervade AlN homojunctions. First principles calculations have predicted the neutral complex between an aluminum vacancy and oxygen impurity on a neighboring nitrogen site (v Al -1O N ) 0 has a spin triplet configuration, which is stable in a region when the Fermi level is below midgap. From defect equilibrium simulations considering 602 possible defects, v Al -1O N was found to be unstable on the Mg-doped side of the homojunction and isolated oxygen impurities are preferred. On the Si-doped side, v Al -1O N forms but as (v Al -1O N ) -2 , not (v Al -1O N ) 0 . This makes v Al -1O N a prototypical test case for the proposed strategy. Simulations of the Si/Mg:AlN homojunction showed (v Al -1O N ) 0 is stabilized within 6 nm of the interface in the Si-doped portion. This result indicates space charge induced band bending enables control over the concentration, spin state, and position of point defects, which is critical to realizing point defect based quantum information systems.
In circuit quantum electrodynamics, measuring the state of a superconducting qubit introduces a loss channel, which can enhance spontaneous emission through the Purcell effect, thus decreasing the qubit lifetime. This decay can be mitigated by performing the measurement through a Purcell filter, which strongly suppresses signal propagation at the qubit transition frequency. If the filter is also well-matched at the readout cavity frequency, it will protect the qubit from decoherence channels without sacrificing measurement bandwidth. We propose and analyze design for a mechanical Purcell filter, which we also fabricate and characterize at room temperature. The filter is composed of an array of nanomechanical resonators in thin-film lithium niobate, connected in a ladder topology, with series and parallel resonances arranged to produce a bandpass response. Their modest footprint, steep band edges, and lack of cross talk make these filters an appealing alternative to analogous electromagnetic versions currently used in microwave quantum machines.
DC measurement of dressed states in a coupled 100 GHz resonator system using a single quasiparticle transistor as a sensitive microwave detector
As with any quantum computing platform, semiconductor quantum dot devices require sophisticated hardware and controls for operation. The increasing complexity of quantum dot devices necessitates the advancement of automated control software and image recognition techniques for rapidly evaluating charge stability diagrams. We use an image analysis toolbox developed in Python to automate the calibration of virtual gates, a process that previously involved a large amount of user intervention. Moreover, we show that straightforward feedback protocols can be used to simultaneously tune multiple tunnel couplings in a triple quantum dot in a computer automated fashion. Finally, we adopt the use of a "tunnel coupling lever arm" to model the interdot barrier gate response and discuss how it can be used to more rapidly tune interdot tunnel couplings to the gigahertz values that are compatible with exchange gates.
We introduce Cryoscope, a method for sampling on-chip baseband pulses used to dynamically control qubit frequency in a quantum processor. We specifically use Cryoscope to measure the step response of the dedicated flux control lines of two-junction transmon qubits in circuit QED processors with the temporal resolution of the room-temperature arbitrary waveform generator producing the control pulses. As a first application, we iteratively improve this step response using optimized real-time digital filters to counter the linear-dynamical distortion in the control line, as needed for high-fidelity repeatable one-and two-qubit gates based on dynamical control of qubit frequency.
We report the experimental realization of a 3D capacitively shunt superconducting flux qubit with long coherence times. At the optimal flux bias point, the qubit demonstrates energy relaxation times in the range of 60-90 ls and a Hahn-echo coherence time of about 80 ls, which can be further improved by dynamical decoupling. Qubit energy relaxation can be attributed to quasiparticle tunneling and unwanted two-level-system defects, while qubit dephasing is caused by flux noise away from the optimal point. Our results show that 3D c-shunt flux qubits demonstrate improved performance over other types of flux qubits, which is advantageous for applications such as quantum magnetometry and spin sensing.
The silicon-vacancy (SiV) color center in diamond has recently emerged as a promising qubit for quantum photonics. However, the electrical control and excitation of the SiV centers are challenging due to the low density of free carriers in doped diamond. Here, we realize electrical excitation of SiV centers in a single-crystal diamond membrane, which is promising for scalable photonic architectures. We further demonstrate electrical switching of the charge states of the SiV centers by applying a forward bias voltage to the fabricated diamond-membrane devices and identify the position of the SiV À /SiV 0 charge transition level. Our findings provide a perspective toward electrical triggering of color centers in diamond and accelerate the development of scalable quantum nanophotonic technologies.
Superconducting qubits provide a competitive platform for quantum simulation of complex dynamics that lies at the heart of quantum many-body systems, because of the flexibility and scalability afforded by the nature of microfabrication. However, in a multiqubit device, the physical form of couplings between qubits is either an electric (capacitor) or magnetic field (inductor), and the associated quadratic field energy determines that only two-body interaction in the Hamiltonian can be directly realized. Here, we propose and experimentally synthesize a three-body spin-chirality interaction in a superconducting circuit based on Floquet engineering. By periodically modulating the resonant frequencies of the qubits connected with each other via capacitors, we can dynamically turn on and off qubit-qubit couplings and further create chiral flows of the excitations in the three-qubit circular loop. Our result is a step toward engineering dynamical and manybody interactions in multiqubit superconducting devices, which potentially expands the degree of freedom in quantum simulation tasks.
We demonstrate waveguide-integrated superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors on thin-film lithium niobate (LiNbO 3 , LN). Using a 250 lm-long NbN superconducting nanowire lithographically defined on top of a 125 lm-long LN nanowaveguide, an on-chip detection efficiency of 46% is realized with simultaneous high performance in dark count rates and timing jitter. As LN possesses high v ð2Þ secondorder nonlinear and electro-optic properties, an efficient single-photon detector on thin-film LN opens up the possibility to construct a small-scale fully integrated quantum photonic chip, which includes single-photon sources, filters, tunable quantum gates, and detectors.
The existing scalable superconducting quantum processors have only nearest-neighbor coupling. This leads to a reduced circuit depth, requiring a large series of gates to perform an arbitrary unitary operation in such systems. Recently, multi-modal devices have been demonstrated as a promising candidate for small quantum processor units. Always on longitudinal coupling in such circuits leads to implementation of native high fidelity multi-qubit gates. We propose an architecture using such devices as building blocks for a highly connected larger quantum circuit. To demonstrate a quantum operation between such blocks, a standard transmon is coupled to the multi-modal circuit using a 3D bus cavity giving rise to small exchange interaction between the transmon and one of the modes. We study the cross-resonance interaction in such systems and characterize the entangling operation and the unitary imperfections and crosstalk as a function of device parameters. Finally, we tune up the cross-resonance drive to implement multi-qubit gates in this architecture.
We report on electron spin resonance spectroscopy measurements using a superconducting flux qubit with a sensing volume of 6 fl. The qubit is read out using a frequency-tunable Josephson bifurcation amplifier, which leads to an inferred measurement sensitivity of about 20 spins in a 1 s measurement. This sensitivity represents an order of magnitude improvement when compared to flux-qubit schemes using a direct current-superconducting quantum interference device switching readout. Furthermore, noise spectroscopy reveals that the sensitivity is limited by flicker (1=f ) flux noise.
The creation of multilevel quantum states, qudits, has revolutionized concepts for quantum computing. Classical systems that capture behavior analogous to quantum systems have been demonstrated. In this spirit, we consider a three-level classical analogue of the qudit composed of coupled acoustic waveguides. Here, we demonstrate both the experimental realization of a three-level classical analogue of the qudit and the creation and tuning of nonseparable superpositions of two of these analogues, which are classically "entangled." Measurements of velocities and transmission inform our assignment of these nonseparable states.
Electrons and holes confined in quantum dots define excellent building blocks for quantum emergence, simulation, and computation. Silicon and germanium are compatible with standard semiconductor manufacturing and contain stable isotopes with zero nuclear spin, thereby serving as excellent hosts for spins with long quantum coherence. Here, we demonstrate quantum dot arrays in a silicon metal-oxidesemiconductor (SiMOS), strained silicon (Si/SiGe), and strained germanium (Ge/SiGe). We fabricate using a multi-layer technique to achieve tightly confined quantum dots and compare integration processes. While SiMOS can benefit from a larger temperature budget and Ge/SiGe can make an Ohmic contact to metals, the overlapping gate structure to define the quantum dots can be based on a nearly identical integration. We realize charge sensing in each platform, for the first time in Ge/SiGe, and demonstrate fully functional linear and twodimensional arrays where all quantum dots can be depleted to the last charge state. In Si/SiGe, we tune a quintuple quantum dot using the N þ 1 method to simultaneously reach the few electron regime for each quantum dot. We compare capacitive crosstalk and find it to be the smallest in SiMOS, relevant for the tuning of quantum dot arrays. We put these results into perspective for quantum technology and identify industrial qubits, hybrid technology, automated tuning, and two-dimensional qubit arrays as four key trajectories that, when combined, enable fault-tolerant quantum computation.
We characterize InSb quantum dots induced by bottom finger gates within a nanowire that is grown via the vapor-liquid-solid process. The gates are separated from the nanowire by an exfoliated 35 nm thin hexagonal BN flake. We probe the Coulomb diamonds of the gateinduced quantum dot exhibiting a charging energy of $2:5 meV and orbital excitation energies up to 0.3 meV. The gate hysteresis for sweeps covering 5 Coulomb diamonds reveals an energy hysteresis of only 60 leV between upward and downward sweeps. Charge noise is studied via long-term measurements at the slope of a Coulomb peak revealing a potential fluctuation of $1 leV/ ffiffiffiffiffiffi Hz p at 1 Hz. This makes h-BN a dielectric with the currently lowest gate hysteresis and lowest low-frequency potential fluctuations reported for low-gap III-V nanowires. The extracted values are similar to state-of-the-art quantum dots within Si/SiGe and Si/SiO 2 systems.
Microwave-to-optical transduction has received a great deal of interest from the cavity optomechanics community as a landmark application for electro-optomechanical systems. In this Letter, we demonstrate a transducer that combines high-frequency mechanical motion and a microwave cavity. The system consists of a 3D microwave cavity and a gallium arsenide optomechanical crystal, which has been placed in the microwave electric field maximum. This allows the microwave cavity to actuate the gigahertz-frequency mechanical breathing mode in the optomechanical crystal through the piezoelectric effect, which is then read out using a telecom optical mode. The gallium arsenide optomechanical crystal is a good candidate for low-noise microwave-to-telecom transduction, as it has been previously cooled to the mechanical ground state in a dilution refrigerator. Moreover, the 3D microwave cavity architecture can naturally be extended to couple to superconducting qubits and to create hybrid quantum systems.
Low-loss cavities are important in building high-coherence superconducting quantum computers. Generating high-quality joints between parts is crucial for the realization of a scalable quantum computer using the circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) framework. In this paper, we adapt the technique of indium bump bonding to cQED to realize high-quality superconducting microwave joints between chips. We use this technique to fabricate compact superconducting cavities in the multilayer microwave integrated quantum circuit (MMIQC) architecture and achieve single photon quality factors over 300 Â 10 6 or single-photon lifetimes approaching 5 ms. To quantify the performance of the resulting seam, we fabricate microwave stripline resonators in multiple sections connected by different numbers of bonds, resulting in a wide range of seam admittances. The measured quality factors combined with the designed seam admittances allow us to bound the conductance of the seam at g seam ! 2 Â 10 10 =ðX mÞ. Such a conductance should enable the construction of micromachined superconducting cavities with a quality factor of at least a billion. These results demonstrate the capability to construct very high-quality microwave structures within the MMIQC architecture.
Coherent charge-photon and spin-photon coupling has recently been achieved in silicon double quantum dots (DQDs). Here, we demonstrate a versatile split-gate cavity-coupler that allows more than one DQD to be coupled to the same microwave cavity. Measurements of the cavity transmission as a function of level detuning yield a charge cavity coupling rate of g c =2p ¼ 58 MHz, a charge decoherence rate of c c =2p ¼ 36 MHz, and a cavity decay rate of j=2p ¼ 1.2 MHz. The charge cavity coupling rate is in good agreement with device simulations. Our coupling technique can be extended to enable simultaneous coupling of multiple DQDs to the same cavity mode, opening the door to long-range coupling of semiconductor qubits using microwave frequency photons.
For future integration of a large number of qubits and complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) controllers, higher operation temperature of qubits is strongly desired. In this work, we fabricate p-channel silicon quantum dot (Si QD) devices on silicon-on-insulator for strong confinement of holes and investigate the temperature dependence of Coulomb oscillations and Coulomb diamonds. The physically defined Si QDs show clear Coulomb diamonds at temperatures up to 25 K, much higher than for gate defined QDs. To verify the temperature dependence of Coulomb diamonds, we carry out simulations and find good agreement with the experiment. The results suggest a possibility for realizing quantum computing chips with qubits integrated with CMOS electronics operating at higher temperature in the future.
We propose an optical scheme to generate an entangled state between a trapped ion and a solid state donor qubit through which-path erasure of identical photons emitted from the two systems. The proposed scheme leverages the similar transition frequencies between In donor bound excitons in ZnO and the 2 P 1=2 to 2 S 1=2 transition in Yb þ . The lifetime of the relevant ionic state is longer than that of the ZnO system by a factor of 6, leading to a mismatch in the temporal profiles of emitted photons. A detuned cavity-assisted Raman scheme weakly excites the donor with a shaped laser pulse to generate photons with a 0.99 temporal overlap to the Yb þ emission and partially shift the emission of the defect toward the Yb þ transition. The remaining photon shift is accomplished via the dc Stark effect. We show that an entanglement rate of 2:1 Â 10 4 s À1 and an entanglement fidelity of 94% can be attained using a weak excitation scheme with reasonable parameters.
Quantum neuromorphic computing physically implements neural networks in brain-inspired quantum hardware to speed up their computation. In this perspective article, we show that this emerging paradigm could make the best use of the existing and near future intermediate size quantum computers. Some approaches are based on parametrized quantum circuits and use neural network-inspired algorithms to train them. Other approaches, closer to classical neuromorphic computing, take advantage of the physical properties of quantum oscillator assemblies to mimic neurons and synapses to compute. We discuss the different implementations of quantum neuromorphic networks with digital and analog circuits, highlight their respective advantages, and review exciting recent experimental results.
High-frequency optomechanical resonators are in demand as transduction devices to bridge microwave and optical fields. Thin-film lithium niobate is a promising platform for implementing high-frequency optomechanics for its low optical loss and strong piezoelectric coefficients. However, its strong piezoelectricity is also known to introduce excess phonon loss. Here, we present lithium niobate optomechanical resonators with film-thickness-mode mechanical resonances up to 5.2 GHz, reaching the operating frequency regime of superconducting qubits. By engineering the mechanical anchor to minimize the phonon loss, we achieve a high quality factor up to 12 500 at cryogenic temperatures and, hence, a frequency-quality factor product of 6.6 Â 10 13 . Our system also features interference between piezo-optomechanical and electro-optic modulation. A theoretical model is derived to analyze these two effects and their interference.
Quantum imaging based on entangled light, laser light, and thermal light has been extensively studied. However, single-photon quantum imaging is still in its infancy. In this paper, we perform quantum imaging using heralded single-photon sources and achieve single-photon illumination computational ghost imaging and single-photon illumination single-pixel camera imaging.
Laterally grown In x Ga 1Àx As nanowires (NWs) are promising candidates for radio frequency and quantum computing applications, which, however, can require atomic scale surface and interface control. This is challenging to obtain, not least due to ambient air exposure between fabrication steps, which induces surface oxidation. The geometric and electronic surface structures of In x Ga 1Àx As NWs and contacts, which were grown directly in a planar configuration, exposed to air, and then subsequently cleaned using atomic hydrogen, are studied using lowtemperature scanning tunneling microscopy and spectroscopy (STM/S). Atomically flat facets with a root mean square roughness of 0.12 nm and the InGaAs (001) 4 Â 2 surface reconstruction are observed on the top facet of the NWs and the contacts. STS shows a surface bandgap variation of 30 meV from the middle to the end of the NWs, which is attributed to a compositional variation of the In/Ga element concentration. The well-defined facets and small bandgap variations found after area selective growth and atomic hydrogen cleaning are a good starting point for achieving high-quality interfaces during further processing.
We demonstrate a quantum key distribution (QKD) implementation over deployed dark telecom fibers with polarization-entangled photons generated at the O-band. One of the photons in the pairs is propagated through 10 km of deployed fiber, while the others are detected locally. Polarization drifts experienced by the photons propagating through the fibers are compensated with liquid crystal variable retarders. This ensures continuous and stable QKD operation with an average quantum bit error rate of 6.4% and a final key rate of 109 bits/s.
A complex quantum dot circuit based on a clean and suspended carbon nanotube embedded in a circuit quantum electrodynamic (cQED) architecture is a very attractive platform to investigate a large spectrum of physics phenomena ranging from qubit physics to nanomechanics. We demonstrate a carbon nanotube transfer process allowing us to integrate clean carbon nanotubes into complex quantum dot circuits inside a cQED platform. This technique is compatible with various contacting materials such as superconductors or ferromagnets. This makes it suitable for hybrid quantum devices. Our results are based on eight different devices demonstrating the robustness of this technique.
We report a low-temperature transport study of a single-gate, planar field-effect device made from a free-standing, wurtzite-crystalline InAs nanosheet. The nanosheet is grown via molecular beam epitaxy and the field-effect device is characterized by gate transfer characteristic measurements and by magnetic field orientation dependent transport measurements. The measurements show that the device exhibits excellent electrical properties and the electron transport in the nanosheet is of a two-dimensional nature. Low-field magnetoconductance measurements are performed for the device at different gate voltages and temperatures, and the characteristic transport lengths, such as phase coherent length, spin-orbit length, and mean free path, in the nanosheet are extracted. It is found that the spin-orbit length in the nanosheet is short, on the order of 150 nm, demonstrating the presence of strong spin-orbit interaction in the InAs nanosheet. Our results show that epitaxially grown, free-standing, InAs nanosheets can serve as an emerging semiconductor nanostructure platform for applications in spintronics, spin qubits, and planar topological quantum devices.
Phonon modes at microwave frequencies can be cooled to their quantum ground state using conventional cryogenic refrigeration, providing a convenient way to study and manipulate quantum states at the single phonon level. Phonons are of particular interest because mechanical deformations can mediate interactions with a wide range of different quantum systems, including solid-state defects, superconducting qubits, and optical photons when using optomechanically active constructs. Phonons, thus, hold promise for quantum-focused applications as diverse as sensing, information processing, and communication. Here, we describe a piezoelectric quantum bulk acoustic resonator (QBAR) with a 4.88 GHz resonant frequency, which, at cryogenic temperatures, displays large electromechanical coupling strength combined with a high intrinsic mechanical quality factor, Q i % 4:3 Â 10 4 . Using a recently developed flip-chip technique, we couple this QBAR resonator to a superconducting qubit on a separate die and demonstrate the quantum control of the mechanics in the coupled system. This approach promises a facile and flexible experimental approach to quantum acoustics and hybrid quantum systems.
Integrated quantum devices are at the basis of the realization of scalable, high-performance quantum technology, including quantum computers and quantum communication schemes, where single photons are emitted, guided, manipulated, and detected on a chip. Engineered nano-devices enable the efficient confinement of light and, ultimately, the control of the spontaneous emission dynamics of single emitters, which is crucial for cavity quantum electrodynamics experiments and for the development of classical and quantum light sources. Here, we report on the demonstration of enhanced light-matter interaction and Purcell effects on a chip, based on bio-inspired aperiodic devices fabricated in gallium arsenide. Indium arsenide single quantum dots are used as internal light sources to image, by means of microphotoluminescence spectroscopy, the optical modes supported by photonic membranes with Vogel-spiral geometry. These emitters are also used to probe the density of optical states, modified by the aperiodic devices, by means of time-resolved spectroscopy. Our results show cavity quantum electrodynamics effects providing strong modifications of the spontaneous emission decay of single optical transitions. In particular, thanks to the significant modification of the density of optical states demonstrated in Vogel-spiral photonic structures, we show control of the decay lifetime of single emitters with a dynamic range reaching 20, thus opening the path to the implementation of aperiodic geometries in active classical and quantum devices.
Variable microwave-frequency couplers are highly useful components in classical communication systems and likely will play an important role in quantum communication applications. Conventional semiconductor-based microwave couplers have been used with superconducting quantum circuits, enabling, for example, the in situ measurements of multiple devices via a common readout chain. However, the semiconducting elements are lossy and furthermore dissipate energy when switched, making them unsuitable for cryogenic applications requiring rapid, repeated switching. Superconducting Josephson junction-based couplers can be designed for dissipation-free operation with fast switching and are easily integrated with superconducting quantum circuits. These enable on-chip, quantum-coherent routing of microwave photons, providing an appealing alternative to semiconductor switches. Here, we present and characterize a chip-based broadband microwave variable coupler, tunable over 4-8 GHz with over 1.5 GHz instantaneous bandwidth, based on the superconducting quantum interference device with two parallel Josephson junctions. The coupler is dissipation-free and features large on-off ratios in excess of 40 dB, and the coupling can be changed in about 10 ns. The simple design presented here can be readily integrated with superconducting qubit circuits and can be easily generalized to realize a four-or more port device.
We present the design and vacuum performance of a compact room-temperature trapped ion system for quantum computing, consisting of an ultra-high vacuum (UHV) package, a micro-fabricated surface trap, and a small form-factor ion pump. The system is designed to maximize mechanical stability and robustness by minimizing the system size and weight. The internal volume of the UHV package is only %2 cm 3 , a significant reduction in comparison with conventional vacuum chambers used in trapped ion experiments. We demonstrate trapping of 174 Yb þ ions in this system and characterize the vacuum level in the UHV package by monitoring both the rates of ion hopping in a double-well potential and ion chain reordering events. The calculated pressure in this vacuum package is %2:2 Â 10 11 Torr, which is sufficient for the majority of current trapped ion experiments.
Fast magnetic flux control is a crucial ingredient for circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) systems. So far, it has been a challenge to implement this technology with the high coherence 3D cQED architecture. In this paper, we control the magnetic field inside a superconducting waveguide cavity using a magnetic hose, which allows flux control of 3D transmon qubits on time scales less than 100 ns while maintaining a cavity quality factor larger than 10 6 . The magnetic hose is designed as an effective microwave filter to not compromise the energy relaxation time of the qubit. The magnetic hose is a promising tool for fast magnetic flux control in various platforms intended for quantum information processing and quantum optics.
Having accurate gate generation is essential for precise control of a quantum system. The generated gate usually suffers from linear and nonlinear distortion. Previous works have demonstrated how to use a qubit to correct linear frequency distortions but have not commented on how to handle nonlinear distortions. This is an important issue as we show that nonlinear amplitude distortions from the RF electronics can affect Rabi pulses by as much as 10%. We present work that demonstrates how a transmon qubit can be used as a highly sensitive cryogenic detector to characterize these nonlinear amplitude distortions. We show that a correction can drive these errors down to <1% over a 700 MHz range. This correction technique provides a method to minimize the effects of signal distortions and can be easily applied to broadband control pulses to produce higher fidelity arbitrary quantum gates.
Broadband quantum-limited amplifiers play a critical role in the single-shot readout of superconducting qubits, but a popular implementation, the traveling wave parametric amplifier, involves a complex design and fabrication process. Here, we present a simple design for a Josephson parametric amplifier, using a lumped element resonator comprising a superconducting quantum interference device whose useful bandwidth is enhanced with an on-chip impedance-matching circuit. We demonstrate a flux-coupling geometry that maximizes the coupling to the Josephson loop and minimizes spurious excitation of the amplifier resonant circuit. The amplifier, which operates in a flux-pumped mode, is demonstrated with a power gain of more than 20 dB over a bandwidth of about 300 MHz, where approximate noise measurements indicate quantum-limited performance. A procedure is given for optimizing the bandwidth for this kind of amplifier, using a linearized circuit simulation while minimizing non-linearities.
Quantum dots fabricated using methods compatible with semiconductor manufacturing are promising for quantum information processing. In order to fully utilize the potential of this platform, scaling quantum dot arrays along two dimensions is a key step. Here, we demonstrate a two-dimensional quantum dot array where each quantum dot is tuned to single-charge occupancy, verified by simultaneous measurements using two integrated radio frequency charge sensors. We achieve this by using planar germanium quantum dots with low disorder and a small effective mass, allowing the incorporation of dedicated barrier gates to control the coupling of the quantum dots. We measure the hole charge filling spectrum and show that we can tune single-hole quantum dots from isolated quantum dots to strongly exchange coupled quantum dots. These results motivate the use of planar germanium quantum dots as building blocks for quantum simulation and computation.
Quantum annealing (QA) is a computing paradigm for solving combinatorial optimization problems by finding the low-energy configurations of complicated Ising models through quantum fluctuation. Recently, because of the strictly limited number of superconducting qubits per chip, three-dimensional (3D) integrated technologies have attracted great attention for realizing a practical large-scale QA machine. Because a cryogenic environment is required for qubit chip operation, the less-effective heat transfer in the stacked structure has become a major concern. In the present paper, a method to realize a sufficiently low temperature for quantum operation in large-scale superconducting QA machines based on 3D packaging technology is proposed and demonstrated numerically. We reveal that the heating in such a 3D structure, which seriously reduces the quantum coherence of qubit chips, is effectively prevented by adding through-silicon vias (TSVs). Accordingly, the temperature of the qubit chip is drastically reduced from 57.8 mK to 16.4 mK. Our results indicate that using TSVs are a powerful and simple approach to realizing practical large-scale superconducting QA machines.
Shortcuts to adiabaticity have been proved an effective routine for precise quantum state manipulation. Here, we experimentally demonstrate invariant-based shortcuts to adiabaticity to speed up the population transfer in a superconducting circuit. Through inverse engineering of the Hamiltonian, we realize this protocol in a single-qubit and a two-qubit system. The Lewis-Risenfeld phase is characterized experimentally. Furthermore, we investigate the robustness of the scheme against amplitude and frequency errors.
In this study, we report about the design, fabrication, and operation of a Cu-filled through-silicon via (TSV)-integrated ion trap. TSVs are placed directly underneath electrodes as vertical interconnections between an ion trap and a glass interposer, facilitating the arbitrary geometry design with increasing electrode numbers and evolving complexity. The integration of TSVs reduces the form factor of the ion trap by more than 80%, minimizing parasitic capacitance from 32 6 2 to 3 6 0.2 pF. A low RF dissipation is achieved in spite of the absence of the ground screening layer. The entire fabrication process is on a 12-in. wafer and compatible with the established CMOS back end process. We demonstrate the basic functionality of the trap by loading and laser-cooling single 88 Sr þ ions. It is found that both the heating rate (17 quanta/ms for an axial frequency of 300 kHz) and lifetime ($30 min) are comparable with traps of similar dimensions. This work pioneers the development of TSV-integrated ion traps, enriching the toolbox for scalable quantum computing.
Despite numerous efforts, the coupling between randomly arranged multi-NV centers and also resonators has not been improved significantly mainly due to our limited knowledge of their free evolution time for entanglement (2s ent ). Here, we demonstrate very strong coupling between three NV centers by using a simulated triple electron-electron resonance experiment based on a quantum (U C ) gate on an IBM quantum simulator with 2s ent $ 12.5 ls arranged in a triangular configuration. Interestingly, through breaking, the symmetry of couplings an even lower 2s ent $ 6.3 ls can be achieved. This simulation not only explains the luminescence spectra in recently observed three NV centers but also shows a large improvement of the entanglement in artificially created structures through a cyclic redistribution of couplings. Realistically disordered coupling configurations of NV center qubits with short time periods and high (0.89-0.99) fidelity of states clearly demonstrate the possibility of accurate quantum registers operated at room temperature.
Silicon carbide (SiC) excels in its outstanding mechanical properties, which are widely studied in microelectromechanical systems. Recently, the mechanical tuning of color centers in 4H-SiC has been demonstrated, broadening its application in quantum spintronics. The strain generated in a mechanical resonator can be used to manipulate the quantum state of the color center qubit. This work reports a lateral overtone mechanical resonator fabricated from a semi-insulating bulk 4H-SiC wafer. An aluminum nitride piezoelectric transducer on SiC is used to drive the resonance. The resonator shows a series of modes with quality factors (Q) above 3000. An acoustic reflector positioned at the anchor shows a 22% improvement in Q at 300 MHz resonance and suppresses the overtone modes away from it. This monolithic SiC resonator allows optical access to the SiC color centers from both sides of the wafer, enabling a convenient setup in quantum measurements.
We report a theoretical study of the coherence dynamics of spin qubits in two-dimensional materials (2DMs) and van der Waals heterostructures, as a function of the host thickness and the composition of the surrounding environment. We focus on MoS 2 and WS 2 , two promising systems for quantum technology applications, and we consider the decoherence arising from the interaction of the spin qubit with nuclear spins. We show that the Hahn-echo coherence time is determined by a complex interplay between the source of decoherence in the qubit host and in the environment, which in turn determines whether the noise evolution is in a classical or quantum mechanical regime. We suggest that the composition and thickness of van der Waals heterostructures encapsulating a qubit host can be engineered to maximize coherence times. Finally, we discuss how quantum sensors may be able to probe the dynamics of the nuclear bath in 2DMs.
Due to their unique properties as lossless, nonlinear circuit elements, Josephson junctions lie at the heart of superconducting quantum information processing. Previously, we demonstrated a two-layer, submicrometer-scale overlap junction fabrication process suitable for qubits with long coherence times. Here, we extend the overlap junction fabrication process to micrometer-scale junctions. This allows us to fabricate other superconducting quantum devices. For example, we demonstrate an overlap junction-based Josephson parametric amplifier that uses only two layers. This efficient fabrication process yields frequency-tunable devices with negligible insertion loss, a gain of $30 dB, and quantum limited noise performance. Compared to other processes, the overlap junction allows for fabrication with minimal infrastructure, high yield, and state-of-the-art device performance.
High-density nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers exceeding 10 16 /cm 3 inside a diamond can be achieved by femtosecond laser irradiation. The number of pulses and pulse energy were adjusted considering the increasing trend of the NV concentration and damage generation. The NV concentration first grew as the number of laser pulses was increased, and then the concentration was temporarily saturated or decreased. By increasing the number of laser pulses more than 2.5-5 Â 10 7 , the concentration increased again. The Hahn-echo measurement revealed that electron spins of the substitutional nitrogen center (P1) were dominant source for decoherence and the number of paramagnetic defects induced by the laser irradiation was not significant for degradation of spin coherence of the laser-induced NV centers even without a postannealing process. Such high-dense ensemble NV centers are crucial for a high-sensitive quantum sensor.
Topological insulators (TIs) host spin-momentum locked surface states that are inherently susceptible to magnetic proximity modulations, making them promising for nano-electronic, spintronic, and quantum computing applications. While much effort has been devoted to studying (quantum) anomalous Hall effects in magnetic magnetically doped TIs, the inherent magnetoresistance (MR) properties in magnetic proximity-coupled surface states remain largely unexplored. Here, we directly exfoliate Bi 2 Se 3 TI flakes onto a magnetic insulator, yttrium iron garnet, and measure the MR at various temperatures. We experimentally observe an anisotropic magnetoresistance that is consistent with a magnetized surface state. Our results indicate that the TI has magnetic anisotropy out of the sample plane, which opens an energy gap between the surface states. By applying a magnetic field along any in-plane orientation, the magnetization of the TI rotates toward the plane and the gap closes. Consequently, we observe a large ($6.5%) MR signal that is attributed to an interplay between coherent rotation of magnetization within a topological insulator and abrupt switching of magnetization in the underlying magnetic insulator.
Artificial magnetic molecules can contribute to progressing toward large scale quantum computation by (a) integrating multiple quantum resources and (b) reducing the computational costs of some applications. Chemical design, guided by theoretical proposals, allows embedding nontrivial quantum functionalities in each molecular unit, which then acts as a microscopic quantum processor able to encode error protected logical qubits or to implement quantum simulations. Scaling up even further requires "wiring-up" multiple molecules. We discuss how to achieve this goal by the coupling to on-chip superconducting resonators. The potential advantages of this hybrid approach and the challenges that still lay ahead are critically reviewed.
Fiber-based quantum networks require photons at telecommunications wavelengths to interconnect qubits separated by long distances. Trapped ions are leading candidates for quantum networking with high-fidelity two-qubit gates, long coherence times, and the ability to readily emit photons entangled with the ion's internal qubit states. However, trapped ions typically emit photons at wavelengths incompatible with telecommunications fiber. Here, we demonstrate frequency conversion of visible photons, emitted from the S-P dipole transition of a trapped Ba þ ion into the telecommunications C-band. These results are an important step toward enabling a long-distance trapped ion quantum internet.
As the field of superconducting quantum computing approaches maturity, optimization of single-device performance is proving to be a promising avenue toward large-scale quantum computers. However, this optimization is possible only if performance metrics can be accurately compared among measurements, devices, and laboratories. Currently, such comparisons are inaccurate or impossible due to understudied errors from a plethora of sources. In this Perspective, we outline the current state of error analysis for qubits and resonators in superconducting quantum circuits and discuss what future investigations are required before superconducting quantum device optimization can be realized.
In this Perspective article, we present recent developments on interaction effects on the carrier transport properties of one-dimensional (1D) semiconductor quantum wires fabricated using the GaAs/AlGaAs system, particularly the emergence of the long predicted fractional quantization of conductance in the absence of a magnetic field. Over three decades ago, it was shown that transport through a 1D system leads to integer quantized conductance given by NÁ2e 2 /h, where N is the number of allowed energy levels (N ¼ 1, 2, 3, …). Recent experiments have shown that a weaker confinement potential and low carrier concentration provide a testbed for electrons strongly interacting. The consequence leads to a reconfiguration of the electron distribution into a zigzag assembly which, unexpectedly, was found to exhibit quantization of conductance predominantly at 1/6, 2/5, 1/4, and 1/2 in units of e 2 /h. These fractional states may appear similar to the fractional states seen in the Fractional Quantum Hall Effect; however, the system does not possess a filling factor and they differ in the nature of their physical causes. The states may have promise for the emergent topological quantum computing schemes as they are controllable by gate voltages with a distinct identity.
Minimizing the micromotion of a trapped ion in a linear Paul trap is of great importance in maintaining long coherence time as well as implementing quantum logic gates with high fidelity, which is crucial for large-scale quantum computation with trapped ions. Here, by applying the RF (radio frequency)-photon correlation technique, we demonstrate that a machine learning method based on artificial neural networks can quickly search for optimal voltage settings of the electrodes to minimize the trapped ion's micromotion. This machine learning assisted RF-photon correlation technique can be straightforwardly applied to more complicated surface ion traps with many electrodes, where the manual minimization of the excess micromotion generated by stray electric fields would become extremely challenging for the larger number of electrodes with various voltage settings. Instead, the presented machine learning assisted method provides an effective and automatic way to address this need.
Mechanical strain plays a key role in the physics and operation of nanoscale semiconductor systems, including quantum dots and singledopant devices. Here, we describe the design of a nanoelectronic device, where a single nuclear spin is coherently controlled via nuclear acoustic resonance (NAR) through the local application of dynamical strain. The strain drives spin transitions by modulating the nuclear quadrupole interaction. We adopt an AlN piezoelectric actuator compatible with standard silicon metal-oxide-semiconductor processing and optimize the device layout to maximize the NAR drive. We predict NAR Rabi frequencies of order 200 Hz for a single 123 Sb nucleus in a wide region of the device. Spin transitions driven directly by electric fields are suppressed in the center of the device, allowing the observation of pure NAR. Using electric field gradient-elastic tensors calculated by the density-functional theory, we extend our predictions to other high-spin group-V donors in silicon and to the isoelectronic 73 Ge atom.
Experimental realizations of two qubit entangling gates with trapped ions typically rely on addressing spectroscopically resolved motional sidebands, limiting gate speed to the secular frequency. Fast entangling gates using ultrafast pulsed lasers overcome this speed limit. This approach is based on state-dependent photon recoil kicks from a sequence of counter-propagating, resonant, ultrafast pulse pairs, which can allow sub-microsecond gate speeds. Here, we demonstrate a key component of the ultrafast gate protocol, the coherent excitation of a 171 Yb þ ion across the 2 S 1=2 -2 P 1=2 transition with a single near-resonant short optical pulse at 369.53 nm. We achieve a maximum population transfer of 94(1)% using a picosecond pulsed laser that can be tuned across the 2 S 1=2 -2 P 1=2 transition and 42.5(9)% with 190(7) GHz detuning.
The implementation of large-scale fault-tolerant quantum computers calls for the integration of millions of physical qubits with very low error rates. This outstanding engineering challenge may benefit from emerging qubits that are protected from dominating noise sources in the qubits' environment. In addition to different noise reduction techniques, protective approaches typically encode qubits in global or local decoherence-free subspaces, or in dynamical sweet spots of driven systems. We exemplify such protected qubits by reviewing the state-of-art in protected solid-state qubits based on semiconductors, superconductors, and hybrid devices.
Superconducting qubits have emerged as a potentially foundational platform technology for addressing complex computational problems deemed intractable with classical computing. Despite recent advances enabling multiqubit designs that exhibit coherence lifetimes on the order of hundreds of ls, material quality and interfacial structures continue to curb device performance. Two-level system defects in the thin superconducting film and adjacent dielectric regions introduce stochastic noise and dissipate electromagnetic energy at the cryogenic operating temperatures. In this study, we utilize time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry to understand the role specific fabrication procedures play in introducing such dissipation mechanisms in these complex systems. We interrogated Nb thin films and transmon qubit structures fabricated through slight modifications in the processing and vacuum conditions. We find that when the Nb film is sputtered onto the Si substrate, oxide and silicide regions are generated at various interfaces. We also observe that impurity species, such as niobium hydrides and carbides, are incorporated within the niobium layer during the subsequent lithographic patterning steps. The formation of these resistive compounds likely impacts the superconducting properties of the Nb thin film. Additionally, we observe the presence of halogen species distributed throughout the patterned thin films. We conclude by hypothesizing the source of such impurities in these structures in an effort to intelligently fabricate superconducting qubits and extend coherence times moving forward.
A Ku band pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance spectrometer using an arbitrary waveform generator for quantum control experiments at millikelvin temperatures
We describe how a ladder emitter can implement a tunable quantum logic gate on photonic qubits encoded in the frequency basis. The ground-to-first excited state of the ladder emitter interacts with the control photon, and the first-to-second excited state transition interacts with the target photon. By controlling the relative detuning between the target photon and the first-to-second excited state transition of the ladder emitter, we enable any controlled-phase operation from 0 to p. We derive analytical formulas for the performance of the gate through the S-matrix formalism as well as describe the mechanism intuitively. This gate is deterministic, does not utilize any active control, and needs only a single ladder emitter, enabling low-footprint and more efficient decomposition of quantum circuits, especially the quantum Fourier transform. We suggest multiple potential systems for physical realization of our proposal, such as lanthanide ions embedded in Purcellenhanced cavities. We expect these results to motivate further interest in photonic quantum information processing with designer emitters.
Scalable quantum information processing requires that modular gate operations can be executed in parallel. The presence of crosstalk decreases the individual addressability, causing erroneous results during simultaneous operations. For superconducting qubits which operate in the microwave regime, electromagnetic isolation is often limited due to design constraints, leading to signal crosstalk that can deteriorate the quality of simultaneous gate operations. Here, we propose and demonstrate a method based on the alternative-current Stark effect for calibrating the microwave signal crosstalk. The method is suitable for processors based on fixed-frequency qubits, which are known for high coherence and simple control. The optimal compensation parameters can be reliably identified from a well-defined interference pattern. We implement the method on an array of seven superconducting qubits and show its effectiveness in removing the majority of crosstalk errors.
In addition to striving to assemble more and more qubits in a single monolithic quantum device, taking a modular design strategy may mitigate numerous engineering challenges for achieving large-scalable quantum processors with superconducting qubits. Nevertheless, a major challenge in the modular quantum device is how to realize high-fidelity entanglement operations on qubits housed in different modules while preserving the desired isolation between modules. In this work, we propose a conceptual design of a modular quantum device, where nearby modules are spatially separated by centimeters. In principle, each module can contain tens of superconducting qubits and can be separately fabricated, characterized, packaged, and replaced. By introducing a bridge module between nearby qubit modules and taking the coupling scheme utilizing a tunable bus, tunable coupling of qubits that are housed in nearby qubit modules could be realized. Given physically reasonable assumptions, we expect that sub-100-ns two-qubit gates for qubits housed in nearby modules, which are spatially separated by more than two centimeters could be obtained. In this way, the inter-module gate operations are promising to be implemented with gate performance comparable with that of intra-module gate operations. Moreover, with the help of through-silicon vias technologies, this long-range coupling scheme may also allow one to implement inter-module couplers in a multi-chip stacked processor. Thus, the tunable longer-range coupling scheme and the proposed modular architecture may provide a promising foundation for solving challenges toward large-scale quantum information processing with superconducting qubits.
Modeling of photonic devices traditionally involves solving the equations of light-matter interaction and light propagation. Here, we demonstrate an alternative modeling methodology by reproducing the optical device functionality using a quantum computer. As an illustration, we simulate the quantum interference of light on a thin absorbing film. Such interference can lead to either perfect absorption or total transmission of light through the film, the phenomena attracting attention for data processing applications in classical and quantum information networks. We map the behavior of the photon in the interference experiment to the evolution of a quantum state of transmon, a superconducting charge qubit of the IBM quantum computer. Details of the real optical experiment are flawlessly reproduced on the quantum computer. We argue that the superiority of this methodology shall be apparent in modeling complex multi-photon optical phenomena and devices.
Continued advances in superconducting qubit performance require more detailed understandings of the many sources of decoherence. Within these devices, two-level systems arise due to defects, interfaces, and grain boundaries and are thought to be a major source of qubit decoherence at millikelvin temperatures. In addition to Al, Nb is a commonly used metallization layer in superconducting qubits. Consequently, a significant effort is required to develop and qualify processes that mitigate defects in Nb films. As the fabrication of complete superconducting qubits and their characterization at millikelvin temperatures is a time and resource intensive process, it is desirable to have measurement tools that can rapidly characterize the properties of films and evaluate different treatments. Here, we show that measurements of the variation of the superconducting critical temperature T c with an applied external magnetic field H (of the phase boundary T c À H) performed with very high-resolution show features that are directly correlated with the structure of the Nb films. In combination with x-ray diffraction measurements, we show that one can even distinguish variations in the size and crystal orientation of the grains in a Nb film by small but reproducible changes in the measured superconducting phase boundary.
Trap-integrated superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors with improved
Over-8-dB squeezed light generation by a
In the higher levels of superconducting transmon devices and more generally charge sensitive devices, T Ã 2 measurements made in the presence of low-frequency time-correlated 1=f charge noise and quasiparticle-induced parity flips can give an underestimation of the total dephasing time. The charge variations manifest as beating patterns observed in the overlay of several Ramsey fringe curves and are reproduced with a phenomenological Ramsey curve model, which accounts for the charge variations. T Ã 2 dephasing times, which more accurately represent the total dephasing time, are obtained. The phenomenological model is compared with a Lindblad master equation model. Both models are found to be in agreement with one another and the experimental data. Finally, the phenomenological formulation enables a simple method in which the power spectral density for the low-frequency noise can be inferred from the overlay of several Ramsey curves.
We propose a passive single-photon detector based on the bipolar thermoelectric effect occurring in tunnel junctions between two different superconductors thanks to spontaneous electron-hole symmetry breaking. Our superconducting thermoelectric detector (STED) converts a finite temperature difference caused by the absorption of a single photon into an open circuit thermovoltage. Designed with feasible parameters, our STED is able to reveal single photons of frequency ranging from $15 GHz to $150 PHz depending on the chosen design and materials. In particular, this detector is expected to show values of the signal-to-noise ratio SNR $ 15 at ¼ 50 GHz when operated at a temperature of 10 mK. Interestingly, this device can be viewed as a digital single-photon detector, since it generates an almost constant voltage V S for the full operation energies. Our STED can reveal single photons in a frequency range wider than four decades with the possibility to discern the energy of the incident photon by measuring the time persistence of the generated thermovoltage. Its broadband operation suggests that our STED could find practical applications in several fields of quantum science and technology, such as quantum computing, telecommunications,
Low-loss superconducting rf devices are required when used for quantum computation. Here, we present a series of measurements and simulations showing that conducting losses in the packaging of our superconducting resonator devices affect the maximum achievable internal quality factors (Q i ) for a series of thin-film Al quarter-wave resonators with fundamental resonant frequencies varying between 4.9 and 5.8 GHz. By utilizing resonators with different widths and gaps, different volumes of the stored electromagnetic energy were sampled, thus affecting Q i . When the backside of the sapphire substrate of the resonator device is adhered to a Cu package with a conducting silver glue, a monotonic decrease in the maximum achievable Q i is found as the electromagnetic sampling volume is increased. This is a result of induced currents in large surface resistance regions and dissipation underneath the substrate. By placing a hole underneath the substrate and using superconducting material for the package, we decrease the Ohmic losses and increase the maximum Q i for the larger size resonators.
We investigate the switching current distributions of ferromagnetic anomalous Josephson junctions subjected to a linearly increasing bias current. Our study uncovers a significant correlation between the position of the switching current distributions and crucial system parameters, such as the strength of the spin-orbit coupling and the Gilbert damping parameter. This indicates that these parameters can be directly determined through experimental measurements. By conducting a comprehensive analysis of the interplay among noise, magnetization, phase dynamics, and the statistical properties of the switching current distribution, we deepen our understanding of these intriguing cryogenic spintronics devices. These findings hold potential for applications in the field of quantum computing architectures and information processing technologies.
Superconducting electronics are among the most promising alternatives to conventional CMOS technology, thanks to the ultra-fast speed and ultra-high energy efficiency of the superconducting devices. Having a cryogenic control processor is also a crucial requirement for scaling the existing quantum computers up to thousands of qubits. Despite showing outstanding speed and energy efficiency, Josephson junctionbased circuits suffer from several challenges such as flux trapping leading to limited scalability, difficulty in driving high impedances, and so on. Three-terminal cryotron devices have been proposed to solve these issues, which can drive high impedances (> 100 kX) and are free from any flux trapping issue. In this work, we develop a reconfigurable logic circuit using a heater cryotron (hTron). In conventional approaches, the number of devices to perform a logic operation typically increases with the number of inputs. However, here, we demonstrate a single hTron device-based logic circuit that can be reconfigured to perform 1-input copy and NOT, 2-input AND and OR, and 3-input majority logic operations by choosing suitable biasing conditions. Consequently, we can perform any processing task with a much smaller number of devices. Also, since we can perform different logic operations with the same circuit (same layout), we can develop a camouflaged system where all the logic gates will have the same layout. Therefore, this proposed circuit will ensure enhanced hardware security against reverse engineering attacks.
Color centers have emerged as a leading qubit candidate for realizing hybrid spin-photon quantum information technology. One major limitation of the platform, however, is that the characteristics of individual color centers are often strain dependent. As an illustrative case, the silicon-vacancy center in diamond typically requires millikelvin temperatures in order to achieve long coherence properties, but strained silicon-vacancy centers have been shown to operate at temperatures beyond 1 K without phonon-mediated decoherence. In this work, we combine high-stress silicon-nitride thin films with diamond nanostructures to reproducibly create statically strained silicon-vacancy color centers (mean ground state splitting of 608 GHz) with strain magnitudes of $ 4 Â 10 À4 . Based on modeling, this strain should be sufficient to allow for operation of a majority silicon-vacancy centers within the measured sample at elevated temperatures (1.5 K) without any degradation of their spin properties. This method offers a scalable approach to fabricate high-temperature operation quantum memories. Beyond silicon-vacancy centers, this method is sufficiently general that it can be easily extended to other platforms as well.
Reversible computation has been proposed as a future paradigm for energy efficient computation, but so far few implementations have been realized in practice. Quantum circuits, running on quantum computers, are one construct known to be reversible. In this work, we provide a proof-of-principle of classical logical gates running on quantum technologies. In particular, we propose and realize experimentally, Toffoli and Half-Adder circuits suitable for classical computation, using radio frequency-controlled 171 Yb þ ions in a macroscopic linear Paul-trap as qubits. We analyze the energy required to operate the logic gates, both theoretically and experimentally, with a focus on the control energy. We identify bottlenecks and possible improvements in future platforms for energetically efficient computation, e.g., trap chips with integrated antennas and cavity QED. Our experimentally verified energetic model also fills a gap in the literature of the energetics of quantum information and outlines the path for its detailed study, as well as its potential applications to classical computing.
In this review, we introduce a developing qubit platform: floating-electron-based qubits. Electrons floating in a vacuum above the surface of liquid helium or solid neon emerge as promising candidates for qubits, especially due to their expected long coherence times. Despite being in the early stages, a variety of recent experiments from different groups have shown substantial potential in this role. We survey a range of theoretical proposals and recent experiments, primarily focusing on the use of the spin state as the qubit state, wherein the spin and charge states are hybridized. Throughout these proposals and experiments, the charge state is coupled to an LC resonator, which facilitates both the control and readout mechanisms for the spin state via an artificially introduced spin-charge coupling.
Transition metal (TM) ions incorporated into a host from a wide bandgap semiconductor are recognized as a promising system for quantum technologies with enormous potential. In this work, we report on a TM color center in b-Ga 2 O 3 with physical properties attractive for quantum information applications. The center is found to emit at 1.316 lm and exhibits weak coupling to phonons, with optically addressable higher-lying excited states, beneficial for single-photon emission within the telecom range (O-band). Using magnetophotoluminescence (PL) complemented by time-resolved PL measurements, we identify the monitored emission to be internal 1 E! 3 A 2 spinforbidden transitions of a 3d 8 TM ion with a spin-triplet ground state-a possible candidate for a spin qubit. We tentatively attribute this color center to a complex involving a sixfold coordinated Cu 3þ ion.
Recently, several groups have demonstrated two-qubit gate fidelities in semiconductor spin qubit systems above 99%. Achieving this regime of fault-tolerant compatible high fidelities is nontrivial and requires exquisite stability and precise control over the different qubit parameters over an extended period of time. This motivates the search for the efficient calibration of qubit control parameters against different sources of microand macroscopic noise and methods for noise analysis. Here, we present several single-and two-qubit parameter feedback protocols, optimized for and implemented in the state-of-the-art fast field-programmable gate array hardware. Furthermore, we present a wavelet-based analysis on feedback data collected over a $9 h time frame to gain insight into the different sources of noise in the system. Scalable feedback is an outstanding challenge and the presented implementation and analysis gives insight into the benefits and drawbacks of qubit parameter feedback, as feedback related overhead increases. This work demonstrates a pathway toward robust qubit parameter feedback and systematic noise analysis, crucial for mitigation strategies toward systematic high-fidelity qubit operation compatible with quantum error correction protocols.
Two-dimensional layered transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) offer the ideal platform to optically initialize the qubits utilizing the superposition of valley polarized photons. However, in the commonly available 2H phase TMDCs, thickness sensitive crystal inversion symmetry demands the precise control over the number of layers, which makes the study of valley physics challenging. On the other hand, 3R-polymorphic phase TMDCs are non-centrosymmetric irrespective of the number of layers and therefore retain valley degree of freedom for all the thicknesses. Here, using polarization resolved photoluminescence measurements under linearly polarized excitations, we demonstrate the coherent superposition of the valley photons (known as valley coherence) in synthetic 3R-phase MoS 2 with different numbers of layers ranging from 3 layers to 11 layers. With near-resonant excitation (633 nm for AX 0 ), the degree of linear polarization (a measure of the valley coherence) is observed up to 70% at 80 K measurement temperatures and is found to be layer thickness independent. Robust valley coherence is attributed to the high optical quality and the 3R crystal symmetry of the MoS 2 . Using angle resolved polarization dependent measurements, it is established that the net dipolar emission aligns with the polarization orientations of the incident laser, which signifies the valley coherence to be independent of the crystal orientation. This study paves the way toward using 3R-phase MoS 2 as a key material for the development of future quantum technologies utilizing valley polarized photons.
Nonlocal multipartite entanglement holds significant potential for both fundamental physics and practical applications. We present a robust protocol for generating remote entanglement, specifically W states, among multiple nonlocal superconducting qubits. Our protocol employs practical microwave pulse scattering through a microwave cavity, which is coupled to a far-detuned superconducting transmon qubit, facilitating a CNOT-like operation. Our approach can be implemented without the need for single microwave-photon sources and its completion is heralded by microwave photon measurements. Furthermore, our protocol can generate faithful nonlocal W states of distant superconducting qubits with practical detector units, each cascading two quantum non-demolition detectors, rather than ideal single-photon detectors. These distinct features make our protocol particularly useful for large quantum secure communication networks.
There is a growing demand for quantum computing across various sectors, including finance, materials, and studying chemical reactions. A promising implementation involves semiconductor qubits utilizing quantum dots within transistors. While academic research labs currently produce their own devices, scaling this process is challenging, requires expertise, and results in devices of varying quality. Some initiatives are exploring the use of commercial transistors, offering scalability, improved quality, affordability, and accessibility for researchers. This paper delves into potential realizations and the feasibility of employing off-the-shelf commercial devices for qubits. It addresses challenges such as noise, coherence, limited customizability in large industrial fabs, and scalability issues. The exploration includes discussions on potential manufacturing approaches for early versions of small qubit chips. The use of state-of-the-art transistors as hosts for quantum dots, incorporating readout techniques based on charge sensing or reflectometry, and methods like electron shuttling for qubit connectivity are examined. Additionally, more advanced designs, including 2D arrays and crossbar or DRAM-like access arrays, are considered for the path toward accessible quantum computing.
By measuring the current-voltage characteristics and the switching current distributions as a function of temperature, we have investigated the phase dynamics of Al tunnel ferromagnetic Josephson junctions (JJs), designed to fall in the typical range of parameters of state-of-the-art transmons, providing evidence of phase diffusion processes. The comparison with the experimental outcomes on non-magnetic JJs with nominally the same electrodynamical parameters demonstrates that the introduction of ferromagnetic barriers does not cause any sizeable detrimental effect and supports the notion of including tunnel ferromagnetic JJs in qubit architectures.
Building a modular architecture with superconducting quantum computing chips is one of the means to achieve qubit scalability, allowing the screening, selection, replacement, and integration of individual qubit modules into large quantum systems. However, the nondestructive replacement of modules within a compact architecture remains a challenge. Liquid metals, specifically gallium alloys, can be alternatives to solid-state galvanic interconnects. This is motivated by their self-healing, self-aligning, and other desirable fluidic properties, potentially enabling the nondestructive replacement of modules at room temperatures, even after operating the entire system at millikelvin regimes. In this study, we present coplanar waveguide resonators (CPWRs) interconnected by gallium alloy droplets, achieving high internal quality factors up to nearly one million and demonstrating performance on par with the continuous solid-state CPWRs. Leveraging the desirable fluidic properties of gallium alloys at room temperature and their compact design, we envision a modular quantum system enabled by liquid metals.
A detailed understanding of the material properties that affect the splitting between the two low-lying valley states in Si/SiGe heterostructures will be increasingly important as the number of spin qubits is increased. Scanning gate microscopy has been proposed as a method to measure the spatial variation of the valley splitting as a tip-induced dot is moved around in the plane of the Si quantum well. We develop a simulation using an electrostatic model of the scanning gate microscope tip and the overlapping gate structure combined with an approximate solution to the three-dimensional Schr€ odinger-Poisson equation in the device stack. Using this simulation, we show that a tip-induced quantum dot formed near the source and drain electrodes can be adiabatically moved to a region far from the gate electrodes. We argue that by spatially translating the tip-induced dot across a defect in the Si/SiGe interface, changes in valley splitting can be detected.
Quantum defects are atomic defects in materials that provide resources to construct quantum information devices such as single-photon emitters and spin qubits. Recently, two-dimensional (2D) materials gained prominence as a host of quantum defects with many attractive features derived from their atomically thin and layered material formfactor. In this Perspective, we discuss first-principles computational methods and challenges to predict the spin and electronic properties of quantum defects in 2D materials. We focus on the open quantum system nature of the defects and their interaction with external parameters such as electric field, magnetic field, and lattice strain. We also discuss how such prediction and understanding can be used to guide experimental studies, ranging from defect identification to tuning of their spin and optical properties. This Perspective provides significant insights into the interplay between the defect, the host material, and the environment, which will be essential in the pursuit of ideal two-dimensional quantum defect platforms.
On the basis of the Kerr spinning particle, we show that the mass renormalization is perfectly performed by gravity for an arbitrary distribution of source matter. A smooth regularization of the Kerr-Newman solution is considered, leading to a source in the form of a rotating bag filled by a false vacuum. It is shown that gravity controls the phase transition to an AdS or dS false vacuum state inside the bag, providing the mass balance.
We have investigated the ejected-electron spectrum following impact excitation and ionization of laser-excited Na * (nl) atoms by 1.5 keV electrons. By means of two-laser excitation 3s → 3p 3/2 → 7d and subsequent cascading transitions about 8% (4%) of the target atoms were in excited states with n > 3 (7d). The experimental ejected-electron spectrum due to the decay of Auger and autoionization states of laser-excited atoms Na * (nl) with n = 4-7 has been fully interpreted by comprehensive calculations of the energies, cross sections and decay probabilities of the corresponding states. The various processes contributing to the ejected-electron spectrum are with decreasing magnitude: 2s ionization leading to 2s2p 6 nl Auger states, 2p → 3s excitation leading to 2p 5 3s( 1 P)nl autoionization states and 2s → 3l excitation leading to 2s2p 6 3l ( 1 L)nl autoionization states.
We study the quantum-mechanical corrections to two point particles accelerated by a strut in a 2 + 1 D flat background. Since the particles are accelerating, we use finite temperature techniques to compute the Green's function of a conformally coupled scalar applying transparent and Dirichlet boundary conditions at the location of the strut. We find that the induced energy-momentum tensor diverges at the position of the strut unless we impose transparent boundary conditions. Further, we use the regular form of the induced energy-momentum tensor to calculate the gravitational backreaction on the original space. The resulting metric is a constant φ section of the 4-dimensional C-metric, and it describes two black holes corrected by weakly coupled CFT and accelerating in asymptotically flat spacetime. Interestingly enough, the same form of the metric was obtained before in [1] by cutting the AdS C-metric with angular dependent critical 2-brane. According to AdS/CFT+gravity conjecture, the latter should describe strongly coupled CFT black holes accelerating on the brane. The presence of the CFT at finite temperature gives us a unique opportunity to study the AdS/CFT+gravity conjecture at finite temperatures. We calculate various thermodynamic parameters to shed light on the nature of the strongly coupled CFT. This is the first use of the duality in a system containing accelerating particles on the brane.
This note describes an electrode polarization impedance based flow sensor for low water flow measurement. It consists of two pairs of stainless steel electrodes set apart and inserted into a non-conductive flow tube with each pair of electrodes placed diametrically at the opposite sides. The flow sensor is modeled as a typical four-electrode system of which two electrodes are current-carrying and the other two serve as output pick ups. The polarization impedances of the two current carrying electrodes are affected by water flows resulting in changes of differential potential between the two pick-up electrodes which are separated by the same fluid. The interrogation of the two excitation electrodes with dc biased ac signals offers significantly higher sensor sensitivities to flow. The prototype flow sensor constructed for a 20 mm diameter pipeline was able to measure water flow rate as low as tested at 1.06 l h -1 and remained sensitive at a flow rate of 25.18 l h -1 when it was driven with a sinusoidal voltage at 1000 Hz with a peak ac amplitude of 2 V and a dc offset of +8 V. The nonlinear characteristics of the sensor response indicate that the sensor is more sensitive at low flows and will not be able to measure at very high flows. Additional experiments are needed to evaluate the influences of impurities, chemical species, ions constituents, conductivity and temperature over a practical range of residential water conditions, the effects of fluctuating ground signals, measurement uncertainty, power consumption, compensation of effects and practical operations. The flow sensor (principle) presented may be used as (in) a secondary sensor in combination with an existing electronic water meter to extend the low end of measurement range in residential water metering.
The X-ray spectrometer used in high-energy-density plasma experiments generally requires both broad X-ray energy coverage and high temporal, spatial, and spectral resolutions for overcoming the difficulties imposed by the X-ray background, debris, and mechanical shocks. By using an elliptical crystal together with a streak camera, we resolve this issue at the SG-II laser facility. The carefully designed elliptical crystal has a broad spectral coverage with high resolution, strong rejection of the diffuse and/or fluorescent background radiation, and negligible source broadening for extended sources. The spectra that are Bragg reflected ( 
The three-body Förster resonances 3 ´ nP 3/2 (| M |) ® nS 1/2 + (n + 1)S 1/2 + nP 3/2 (| M * |), controlled by a constant electric field, were realised earlier by the authors in an ensemble of several cold Rydberg Rb atoms. One of the drawbacks of such resonances for potential application in three-qubit quantum gates is the proximity of the two-body Förster resonance 2 ´ nP 3/2 ® nS 1/2 + (n + 1)S 1/2 , as well as the possibility of their implementation only for states with values of the principal quantum numbers n £ 38. A three-body resonance of a new type, 3
It is shown that imperfect joints of linear birefringent fib res in a fibre interferometer may result in an uncontrolled visibility drift under varying environmental conditions even with a standard phase matching device. As an example, a double Mach -Zehnder int erferometer is considered, which is employed in schemes of quan tum key distribution. Results of numerical simulation demonstrate the standard deviation of the quantum bit error rate (QBER), which is comparable to an average QBER value.
Compact ultrastable laser system for spectroscopy of 2 S 1/2 → 2 D 3/2 quadrupole transition in 171 Yb +
A scheme is proposed for measuring electron level populations in a semiconductor quantum dot embedded in a multimode waveguide. The photon transmittance of the waveguide under steady-state pumping is shown to depend on the presence of an electron in the ground state of the quantum dot. The influence of waveguide, quantum dot, and photon source parameters on the electron detection process is examined. It is shown that, even at a moderate mode Q-factor (10 4 to 10 5 ), the measurement contrast and signalto-noise ratio are rather high (above 10 4 ). The feasibility of using the proposed method for probing the state of a charge qubit is discussed.
We report the results of experiments on implementing individually addressable one-qubit quantum gates on a microwave transition with two 87 Rb atoms in two optical dipole traps. Addressing is carried out using additional focused laser light, which results in a differential light shift of the microwave transition frequency. In the absence of addressing in each of the atoms, Rabi oscillations are obtained on the microwave clock transition 5S 1/2 (F = 2, m F = 0) ® 5S 1/2 (F = 1, m F = 0) between two working levels of qubits with a frequency of up to 5.1 kHz, a contrast up to 98 %, and a coherence time up to 4 ms. When addressing is turned on, the probability of a microwave transition in the addressed atom is suppressed to an average value of less than 5 %. The Rabi oscillations remaining in the other atom have the same contrast and correspond to the implementation of individually addressable basic one-qubit quantum operations (Hadamard gate and NOT gate) from different initial states of a qubit with an average fidelity of 92% ± 3 %. After renormalising this fidelity to the error in the preparation and measurement of quantum states of qubits, an estimate of 97% ± 3% is obtained for the fidelity of individual qubit rotations.
An elementary algorithm of quantum phase estimation based on the modified Kitaev algorithm is implemented on two qubits of an IBM quantum processor. This algorithm includes adiabatic preparation of the initial state, controlled phase shift with allowance for the results of previous measurements of qubit states, and single measurement of the qubit quantum state in order to obtain each significant bit of the measured phase. Classical error correction is applied to determine the correct sequence of bits, which makes it possible to eliminate the influence of limited accuracy of two-qubit gates.
The tunnel magnetoresistance (TMR) effect was investigated in perpendicularly magnetized magnetic tunnel junctions (p-MTJs) consisting of a stacked layer structure of ultrathin Fe (0.7)/MgO (1.8)/CoFeB (1.2-1.4) (in nm). A relatively large TMR ratio of 95% was obtained with an interface perpendicular magnetic anisotropy energy density of 1.5 mJ m -2 at the Fe/MgO interface. Moreover, we found that the p-MTJ exhibits spin-dependent resonant tunnelling characteristics in the bias voltage dependence of differential conductance, corresponding to a quantum well confined in five monolayers of the Fe(0 0 1) atomic plane. The results showed that the resonant tunnelling of 1 symmetry electrons through the spin-dependent quantum well can be realized even in a p-MTJ structure with strong perpendicular magnetic anisotropy.
Recent advances in the generation of femtosecond extreme ultraviolet pulses have opened up the possibility to study final-state wave functions in photoemission experiments. Here, we investigate, for the first time using femtosecond time-resolved core-level spectroscopy, the feasibility of observing the buildup of a state correlation in a direct time domain. Giant changes in the ratio of photoemission cross-sections of spin-orbit split core states, the branching ratio, are identified. Multi-configuration Dirac-Fock calculations show that the origin of the branching ratio deviation is due to strong core-valence interactions. The possibility to tune this interaction by charge transfer offers intriguing opportunities to study correlation effects in solid and molecular systems in the future.
This paper presents a novel approach to extract the periodic signals masked by a chaotic carrier. It verifies that the driven Duffing oscillator is immune to the chaotic carrier and sensitive to certain periodic signals. A preliminary detection scenario illustrates that the frequency and amplitude of the hidden sine wave signal can be extracted from the chaotic carrier by numerical simulation. The obtained results indicate that the hidden messages in chaotic secure communication can be eavesdropped utilizing Duffing oscillators.
A simple formula is derived for the shift in angle variable (Hannay angle) arising from a slow (adiabatic) cycle of a parameter in a one-dimensional classical system. The formula is illustrated by numerical computations for different degrees of smoothness of the adiabatic driving. If the driving is smooth enough, the adiabatic invariant is sufficiently well conserved to enable fluctuations in the frequency to be neglected when computing the dynamical angle contribution to the final angle. If not (e.g. if the driving is uniform over a finite time), these fluctuations must be taken into account. The Hannay angle appears as a small change in period of a celestial body (Earth) rotating about another body (Sun) caused by the slow revolution of a third body (Jupiter).
Multilayer samples of Ni/Fe and Fe/Cu/NiFe, fabricated by sputtering and characterized by transmission electron microscopy and electron diffraction, were studied by 57 Fe Mössbauer spectra and magnetization measurements. Mössbauer spectra taken in zero applied field at 300 K and 4.2 K showed midlayer and interface iron sites in Ni(20 Å)/Fe(x Å) samples with x = 20 Å, 30 Å, 50 Å, 80 Å and in-plane spin orientation. The reorientation of the magnetic moments at 4.2 K in increasing fields applied normal to the layers when combined with magnetization measurements enabled the magnetic anisotropy energy K of each sample to be evaluated. The trend of the values of K with iron layer thickness gave volume and interface anisotropy components K V = (-5 ± 1) × 10 4 J m -3 and K S = (-0.6 ± 0.4) × 10 -3 J m -2 where negative values indicate in-plane preference. Similar measurements on a series of samples of Fe(30 Å)/Cu(x Å)/Ni(80%)Fe(20%)(30 Å) with x = 10 Å, 20 Å, 30 Å, 50 Å showed a tendency toward increasing in-plane anisotropy energy K with decreasing thickness of the non-magnetic Cu layer.
We report positions, velocities, and metallicities of 50 ab-type RR Lyrae (RRab) stars observed in the vicinity of the Orphan stellar stream. Using about 30 RRab stars classified as being likely members of the Orphan stream, we study the metallicity and the spatial extent of the stream. We find that RRab stars in the Orphan stream have a wide range of metallicities, from -1.5 dex to -2.7 dex. The average metallicity of the stream is -2.1 dex, identical to the value obtained by Newberg et al. using blue horizontal branch stars. We find that the most distant parts of the stream (40-50 kpc from the Sun) are about 0.3 dex more metal-poor than the closer parts (within ∼30 kpc), suggesting a possible metallicity gradient along the stream's length. We have extended the previous studies and have mapped the stream up to 55 kpc from the Sun. Even after a careful search, we did not identify any more distant RRab stars that could plausibly be members of the Orphan stream. If confirmed with other tracers, this result would indicate a detection of the end of the leading arm of the stream. We have compared the distances of Orphan stream RRab stars with the best-fit orbits obtained by Newberg et al. We find that model 6 of Newberg et al. cannot explain the distances of the most remote Orphan stream RRab stars, and conclude that the best fit to distances of Orphan stream RRab stars and to the local circular velocity is provided by potentials where the total mass of the Galaxy within 60 kpc is M 60 ∼ 2.7 × 10 11 M , or about 60% of the mass found by previous studies. More extensive modeling that would consider non-spherical potentials and the possibility of misalignment between the stream and the orbit is highly encouraged.
This paper compares the numerical solutions for Rayleigh-Bènard convection of rarefied air from the Boltzmann equation and from the Navier-Stokes equation. The Boltzmann equation was computed using the direct simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) method. The maximum collision-number method was used to calculate collisions between molecules. The computation was carried out at the Knudsen number (Kn) = 0.029, 0.02, 0.01 and 0.005, and the equivalent Rayleigh number (Ra) = 2990. For the Navier-Stokes equation, the finite difference method was used to discretize governing equations, and the highly simplified marker-and-cell scheme was adopted to solve these equations. Computed profiles of the velocity and the temperature by the DSMC method approached those given by the Navier-Stokes equation as Kn decreased. The centre of the vortex approached the centre of the domain, in agreement with that obtained by the Navier-Stokes equation. The normalized temperature at the middle height and that averaged for the whole domain coincided with each other as Kn decreased and approached 0.5, which is equivalent to the value given by the Navier-Stokes equation.
Features of high fuelling efficiency of supersonic molecular beam injection (SMBI) are studied on the HL-2A tokamak. Normalized by fuelled particle inventory, the D α emission induced by SMBI is about 50% higher than that of gas puffing (GP), indicating that a higher percentage of fuel injected by SMBI will enter the plasma. Strong particle convection (inward pinch) is observed with a hydrogen cyanide (HCN) interferometer as the densities from the core and edge channels increase and decrease, respectively, in the post-fuelling phase. In addition, microwave reflectometry indicates that the peak of fuelled density moves inward. By comparing the SMBI pulses with and without electron cyclotron resonance heating, it is identified that the pinch is driven by the enhancement of electron temperature gradient. Higher enhancement (up to twice) of the normalized electron temperature gradient is observed for SMBI than for GP, and this is another mechanism for the higher fuelling efficiency of SMBI.
The Q-cycle mechanism plays an important role in the conversion of the redox energy into the energy of the proton electrochemical gradient across the biomembrane. The bifurcated electron transfer reaction, which is built into this mechanism, recycles one electron, thus allowing us to translocate two protons per one electron moving to the high-potential redox chain. We study a kinetic model of the Q-cycle mechanism in an artificial system which mimics the bf complex of plants and cyanobacteria in the regime of ferredoxin-dependent cyclic electron flow. Using methods of condensed matter physics, we derive a set of master equations and describe a time sequence of electron and proton transfer reactions in the complex. We find energetic conditions when the bifurcation of the electron pathways at the positive side of the membrane occurs naturally, without any additional gates. For reasonable parameter values, we show that this system is able to translocate more than 1.8 protons, on average, per one electron, with a thermodynamic efficiency of the order of 32% or higher.
We have conducted a statistical analysis of the ultra-luminous X-ray point sources (ULXs; L X 10 39 erg s -1 ) in a sample of galaxies selected from the Arp Atlas of Peculiar Galaxies. We find a possible enhancement of a factor of ∼2-4 in the number of ULXs per blue luminosity for the strongly interacting subset. Such an enhancement would be expected if ULX production is related to star formation, as interacting galaxies tend to have enhanced star formation rates on average. For most of the Arp galaxies in our sample, the total number of ULXs compared to the far-infrared luminosity is consistent with values found earlier for spiral galaxies. This suggests that for these galaxies, ULXs trace recent star formation. However, for the most infrared-luminous galaxies, we find a deficiency of ULXs compared to the infrared luminosity. For these very infrared-luminous galaxies, active galactic nuclei may contribute to powering the far-infrared; alternatively, ULXs may be highly obscured in the X-ray in these galaxies and therefore not detected by these Chandra observations. We determined local UV/optical colors within the galaxies in the vicinity of the candidate ULXs using Galaxy Evolution Explorer UV and Sloan Digitized Sky Survey optical images. In most cases, the distributions of colors are similar to the global colors of interacting galaxies. However, the ug and ri colors at the ULX locations tend to be bluer on average than these global colors, suggesting that ULXs are preferentially found in regions with young stellar populations. In the Arp sample there is a possible enhancement of a factor of ∼2-5 in the fraction of galactic nuclei that are X-ray-bright compared to more normal spirals.
X-ray grating interferometry has been spotlighted in the last decade as a technique for X-ray phase imaging and tomography. In this paper, we report that this interferometry can also be applied to the real-space mapping of weak diffuse scattering (ultrasmall-angle X-ray scattering) in grazing incidence geometry. A preliminary experiment using a laboratory X-ray source demonstrated that image contrast is successfully generated by the diffuse scattering from a micrometer-sized structure fabricated on a silicon wafer. This technique works with a large beam with a wide angular spread from a low-brilliance X-ray source, and has potential to become a powerful tool for mapping structures in real space from which ultrasmallangle X-ray scattering arises.
Large reservoirs along rivers regulate downstream flows to generate hydropower but may also store water for irrigation and urban sectors. Reservoir management therefore becomes critical, particularly for transboundary basins, where coordination between riparian countries is needed. Reservoir management is even more important in semiarid regions where downstream water users may be totally reliant on upstream reservoir releases. If the water resources are shared between upstream and downstream countries, potentially opposite interests arise as is the case in the Syrdarya river in Central Asia. In this case study, remote sensing data (radar altimetry and optical imagery) are used to highlight the potential of satellite data to monitor water resources: water height, areal extent and storage variations. New results from 20 years of monitoring using satellites over the Syrdarya basin are presented. The accuracy of satellite data is 0.6 km 3 using a combination of MODIS data and satellite altimetry, and only 0.2 km 3 with Landsat images representing 2-4% of average annual reservoir volume variations in the reservoirs in the Syrdarya basin. With future missions such as Sentinel-3A (S3A), Sentinel-3B (S3B) and surface water and ocean topography (SWOT), significant improvement is expected. The SWOT mission's main payload (a radar interferometer in Ka band) will furthermore provide 2D maps of water height, reservoirs, lakes, rivers and floodplains, with a temporal resolution of 21 days. At the global scale, the SWOT mission will cover reservoirs with areal extents greater than 250 × 250 m with 20 cm accuracy.
Due to its ability to produce nanosized patterns on large area substrates with high throughput, UV curing nanoimprinting lithography is a promising technology for nanosized pattern fabrication. However, for it to become a technology for the mass production of nanosized patterns, we must first show that UV curing imprint lithography can produce a uniform layer with minimal residue. In this study, a pressurized chamber imprinting system was used. Isotropic pressure was applied to insure effective delivery of pressing force and uniform pressing. A UV curable resin, consisting of a perfluorinated acrylate and a photo-initiator, was used. The factors determining residual layer thickness in UV curing imprint lithography were investigated. To obtain imprinted patterns with no residual layer, a thin and uniform initial resin layer and pressurized imprinting must be used to rearrange the resin effectively. The high fidelity transfer of various patterns as small as 150 nm with no residual layer was successfully demonstrated by controlling the initial resin thickness at an imprint pressure of 15 atm.
We report positions, velocities, and metallicities of 50 ab-type RR Lyrae (RRab) stars observed in the vicinity of the Orphan stellar stream. Using about 30 RRab stars classified as being likely members of the Orphan stream, we study the metallicity and the spatial extent of the stream. We find that RRab stars in the Orphan stream have a wide range of metallicities, from -1.5 dex to -2.7 dex. The average metallicity of the stream is -2.1 dex, identical to the value obtained by Newberg et al. using blue horizontal branch stars. We find that the most distant parts of the stream (40-50 kpc from the Sun) are about 0.3 dex more metal-poor than the closer parts (within ∼30 kpc), suggesting a possible metallicity gradient along the stream's length. We have extended the previous studies and have mapped the stream up to 55 kpc from the Sun. Even after a careful search, we did not identify any more distant RRab stars that could plausibly be members of the Orphan stream. If confirmed with other tracers, this result would indicate a detection of the end of the leading arm of the stream. We have compared the distances of Orphan stream RRab stars with the best-fit orbits obtained by Newberg et al. We find that model 6 of Newberg et al. cannot explain the distances of the most remote Orphan stream RRab stars, and conclude that the best fit to distances of Orphan stream RRab stars and to the local circular velocity is provided by potentials where the total mass of the Galaxy within 60 kpc is M 60 ∼ 2.7 × 10 11 M , or about 60% of the mass found by previous studies. More extensive modeling that would consider non-spherical potentials and the possibility of misalignment between the stream and the orbit is highly encouraged.
We consider the orbital evolution of the S-stars, the young main-sequence stars near the supermassive black hole (SBH) at the Galactic center, and put constraints on competing models for their origin. Our analysis includes for the first time the joint effects of Newtonian and relativistic perturbations to the motion, including the dragging of inertial frames by a spinning SBH as well as torques due to finite-N asymmetries in the field-star distribution (resonant relaxation, RR). The evolution of the S-star orbits is strongly influenced by the Schwarzschild barrier (SB), the locus in the (E, L) plane where RR is ineffective at driving orbits to higher eccentricities. Formation models that invoke tidal disruption of binary stars by the SBH tend to place stars below (i.e., at higher eccentricities than) the SB; some stars remain below the barrier, but most stars are able to penetrate it, after which they are subject to RR and achieve a nearly thermal distribution of eccentricities. This process requires roughly 50 Myr in nuclear models with relaxed stellar cusps, or 10 Myr, regardless of the initial distribution of eccentricities, in nuclear models that include a dense cluster of 10 M black holes. We find a probability of 1% for any S-star to be tidally disrupted by the SBH over its lifetime.
Hybrid electro-optical neural stimulation is a novel paradigm combining the advantages of optical and electrical stimulation techniques while reducing their respective limitations. However, in order to fulfill its promise, this technique requires reduced variability and improved reproducibility. Here we used a comparative physiological approach to aid the further development of this technique by identifying the spatial and temporal factors characteristic of hybrid stimulation that may contribute to experimental variability and/or a lack of reproducibility. Using transient pulses of infrared light delivered simultaneously with a bipolar electrical stimulus in either the marine mollusk Aplysia californica buccal nerve or the rat sciatic nerve, we determined the existence of a finite region of excitability with size altered by the strength of the optical stimulus and recruitment dictated by the polarity of the electrical stimulus. Hybrid stimulation radiant exposures yielding 50% probability of firing (RE 50 ) were shown to be negatively correlated with the underlying changes in electrical stimulation threshold over time. In Aplysia, but not in the rat sciatic nerve, increasing optical radiant exposures (J cm -2 ) beyond the RE 50 ultimately resulted in inhibition of evoked potentials. Accounting for the sources of variability identified in this study increased the reproducibility of stimulation from 35% to 93% in Aplysia and 23% to 76% in the rat with reduced variability.
The decoding principle of a tetra wedge anode, which is a development of the wedge and strip anode, is described. The influence of charge cloud size on decoding accuracy is studied using the Monte Carlo method. Simulation results show that the decoding error is large when the size of charge clouds collected by the anode is small. Thus, the charge clouds collected by the tetra wedge anode should reach a necessary size to ensure accurate decoding. Finally, using the ultraviolet photon counting imaging system, the linearity and the spatial resolution of the system are tested. Experimental results show that the system has a good linearity and the spatial resolution is better than 100 µm.
The glass-forming ability (GFA) of Cu-Zr binary alloys is evaluated using the existing criteria based on calorimetric parameters, and poor relations are found. Therefore, another parameter T rk defined as T k /T l , in which T k is the Kauzmann temperature and T l the equilibrium liquidus temperature, is proposed. It exhibits good agreements with the experimental data of the Cu-Zr system and other representative bulk metallic glass formers so long as classifying them into strong or fragile category. It is suggested that kinetic effects are irrelevantly incorporated in the GFA analysis in the previous work.
We investigate the radio luminosity function and radio source population for two fields within the Coma cluster of galaxies, with the fields centered on the cluster core and southwest infall region and each covering about half a square degree. Using VLA data with a typical rms sensitivity of 28 μJy per 4. 4 beam, we identify 249 radio sources with optical counterparts brighter than r = 22. For cluster galaxies, these correspond to L 1.4 = 1.7 × 10 20 W Hz -1 (for a 5σ source) and M r = -13. Comprehensive optical spectroscopy identifies 38 of these as members of the Coma cluster, evenly split between sources powered by an active nucleus and sources powered by active star formation. The radio-detected star-forming galaxies are the dominant population only at radio luminosities between about 10 21 and 10 22 W Hz -1 , an interesting result given star formation dominates field radio luminosity functions for all luminosities lower than about 10 23 W Hz -1 . The majority of the radio-detected starforming galaxies have characteristics of starbursts, including high specific star formation rates and optical spectra with strong emission lines. In conjunction with prior studies on post-starburst galaxies within the Coma cluster, this is consistent with a picture in which late-type galaxies entering Coma undergo a starburst prior to a rapid cessation of star formation. Optically bright elliptical galaxies (M r -20.5) make the largest contribution to the radio luminosity function at both the high ( 3×10 22 W Hz -1 ) and low ( 10 21 W Hz -1 ) ends. Through a stacking analysis of these optically bright ellipticals we find that they continue to harbor radio sources down to luminosities as faint as 3 × 10 19 W Hz -1 . However, contrary to published results for the Virgo cluster we find no evidence for the existence of a population of optically faint (M r ≈ -14) dwarf ellipticals hosting strong radio AGNs.
There is a remarkable correlation between the spin periods of the accreting neutron stars (NSs) in Be/X-ray binaries (BeXBs) and their orbital periods. Recently, Knigge et al. showed that the distribution of the spin periods contains two distinct subpopulations peaked at ∼10 s and ∼200 s, respectively, and suggested that they may be related to two types of supernovae for the formation of the NSs, i.e., core-collapse and electron-capture supernovae. Here we propose that the bimodal spin period distribution is likely to be ascribed to different accretion modes of the NSs in BeXBs. When the NS tends to capture material from the warped, outer part of the Be star disk and experiences giant outbursts, a radiatively cooling dominated disk is formed around the NS, which spins up the NS and is responsible for the short-period subpopulation. In BeXBs that are dominated by normal outbursts or are persistent, the accretion flow is advection-dominated or quasi-spherical. The spin-up process is accordingly inefficient, leading to longer periods of the neuron stars. The potential relation between the subpopulations and the supernova mechanism is also discussed.
We construct a network from climate records of temperature and geopotential-height in two pressure levels at different geographical sites in the North Atlantic. A link between two sites represents the cross-correlations between the records of each site. We find that within the different phases of the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) the correlation values of the links in the climate network are significantly different. By setting an optimized threshold on the correlation values, we find that the number of strong links in the network increases during times of positive NAO indices, and decreases during times of negative NAO indices. We find a pronounced sensitivity of the network structure to the NAO oscillations which is significantly higher compared to the observed response of spatial average of the climate records. Our results suggest a new measure that tracks the NAO pattern.
The automatic disambiguation of word senses (i.e., the identification of which of the meanings is used in a given context for a word that has multiple meanings) is essential for such applications as machine translation and information retrieval, and represents a key step for developing the so-called Semantic Web. Humans disambiguate words in a straightforward fashion, but this does not apply to computers. In this paper we address the problem of Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) by treating texts as complex networks, and show that word senses can be distinguished upon characterizing the local structure around ambiguous words. Our goal was not to obtain the best possible disambiguation system, but we nevertheless found that in half of the cases our approach outperforms traditional shallow methods. We show that the hierarchical connectivity and clustering of words are usually the most relevant features for WSD. The results reported here shed light on the relationship between semantic and structural parameters of complex networks. They also indicate that when combined with traditional techniques the complex network approach may be useful to enhance the discrimination of senses in large texts.
Silicide-block-film effects on drain-extended MOS (DEMOS) transistors were comparatively investigated, by means of different film stack stoichiometric SiO 2 and silicon-rich oxide (SRO). The electrical properties of the as-deposited films were evaluated by extracting source/drain series resistance. It was found that the block film plays a role like a field plate, which has significant influence on the electric field beneath. Similar to hot-carrierinjection (HCI) induced degradation for devices, the block film initially charged in fabrication process also strongly affects the device characteristics and limits the safe operating area.
A single layer of CoFeB and a multilayer of CoFeB-MgO films are prepared by means of DC/RF magnetron sputter deposition. The excellent microwave properties and high electrical resistivity are simultaneously achieved in the discontinuous multilayer structure of [Co 44 Fe 44 B 12 (0.7 nm)/MgO(0.4 nm)] 40 film. This film has a high permeability (µ′) (larger than 100 below 2.1 GHz), a high magnetic loss (µ ′′ ) (larger than 100 in a range from 1.5 to 3.3 GHz), a resistivity of 3.3×10 3 µΩ• cm, a saturation magnetization of 1.2 T, and an in-plane uniaxial anisotropy field of 5.5 kA/m. The microstructure and the surface topography of the film are also analysed. The relatively large surface roughness for the discontinuous film is responsible for the wide frequency band of magnetic loss. The magnetic loss and the high resistivity indicate that the discontinuous CoFeB-MgO multilayer film has potential applications in microwave absorbers and electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding materials in a GHz frequency range.
calculations on the spectroscopic constants, vibrational levels and classical turning points for the 2 1 Π u state of dimer 7 Li
In this paper, we investigate the quantum Stackelberg duopoly (QSD) game in the noise environment with the depolarizing channel expressed by the Kraus-operator representation. It is found that the presence of the damping in the depolarizing channel always leads to the decrease of the quantities of the moves and payoffs of the two players in the QSD game. It is indicated that under certain conditions the first-mover advantage in the QSD game can be weakened due to the presence of the damping in the depolarizing channel.
The segmented mirror telescope is widely used. The aberrations of segmented mirror systems are different from single mirror systems. This paper uses the Fourier optics theory to analyse the Zernike aberrations of segmented mirror systems. It concludes that the Zernike aberrations of segmented mirror systems obey the linearity theorem. The design of a segmented space telescope and segmented schemes are discussed, and its optical model is constructed. The computer simulation experiment is performed with this optical model to verify the suppositions. The experimental results confirm the correctness of the model.
Atomic and molecular processes relevant to the volumetric recombination phenomena were investigated in a linear divertor plasma simulator MAP-11. Volumetric recombination is induced in He plasma by puffing of He or Hz. In the He puffing case, the reduction of the ion flux is dominated by the electron-ion recombination. In the Hz puffing case, however, it is dominated by the molecule-assisted recombination (MAR), which is characterized by the disappearance of the Helium Rydberg spectra and by the existence of the hydrogen negative ions. Current achievement and the future prospect are described.
Variations in the intensity of the global hydrological cycle can have far-reaching effects on living conditions on our planet. While climate change discussions often revolve around possible consequences of future temperature changes, the adaptation to changes in the hydrological cycle may pose a bigger challenge to societies and ecosystems. Floods and droughts are already today amongst the most damaging natural hazards, with floods being globally the most significant disaster type in terms of loss of human life (Jonkman 2005). From an economic perspective, changes in the hydrological cycle can impose great pressures and damages on a variety of industrial sectors, such as water management, urban planning, agricultural production and tourism. Despite their obvious environmental and societal importance, our understanding of the causes and magnitude of the variations of the hydrological cycle is still unsatisfactory (e.g.,
We present the first experimental realisation on lane formation in binary complex plasmas under gravity conditions. The amount of penetrating particles can be controlled. The experiment can be operated with stable conditions continuously, which allows to study steady state. The driving force is independent of time and position and the background density is homogeneous and isotropic. This provides an ideal model system for comparison with numerical experiments and observations in colloidal suspensions. The experiment setup is based on PK-3 Plus laboratory operated on the International Space Station. Gravitation is compensated by thermophoretic force and penetrating particles are controlled via a toroidal vortex with poloidal flow. The evolution of lane formation along the penetration direction is illustrated by lane order parameter.
Recent calculations have shown that a radial electric field can significantly alter the neoclassical ion heat flux, ion flow, bootstrap current and residual zonal flow in a tokamak, even when the E × B drift is much smaller than the ion thermal speed. Here we show the novel analytical methods used in these calculations can be adapted to a quasisymmetric stellarator. The methods are based on using the conserved helical momentum ψ * instead of the poloidal or toroidal flux as a radial coordinate in the kinetic equation. The bananaregime calculations also employ a model collision operator that keeps only the velocity-space derivatives normal to the trapped-passing boundary, even as this boundary is shifted and deformed by the E×B drift. We prove the isomorphism between quasisymmetric stellarators and tokamaks extends to the finite-E × B generalizations of both banana-regime and plateau-regime neoclassical theory and the residual zonal flow. The plateau-regime results may be relevant to the HSX stellarator, and both the plateau-and banana-regime results can be used to validate stellarator transport codes.
The response of lightning rates over Europe to arrival of high speed solar wind streams at Earth is investigated using a superposed epoch analysis. Fast solar wind stream arrival is determined from modulation of the solar wind V y component, measured by the Advanced Composition Explorer spacecraft. Lightning rate changes around these event times are determined from the very low frequency arrival time difference (ATD) system of the UK Met Office. Arrival of high speed streams at Earth is found to be preceded by a decrease in total solar irradiance and an increase in sunspot number and Mg II emissions. These are consistent with the high speed stream's source being co-located with an active region appearing on the Eastern solar limb and rotating at the 27 d period of the Sun. Arrival of the high speed stream at Earth also coincides with a small (∼1%) but rapid decrease in galactic cosmic ray flux, a moderate (∼6%) increase in lower energy solar energetic protons (SEPs), and a substantial, statistically significant increase in lightning rates. These changes persist for around 40 d in all three quantities. The lightning rate increase is corroborated by an increase in the total number of thunder days observed by UK Met stations, again persisting for around 40 d after the arrival of a high speed solar wind stream. This result appears to contradict earlier studies that found an anti-correlation between sunspot number and thunder days over solar cycle timescales. The increase in lightning rates and thunder days that we observe coincides with an increased flux of SEPs which, while not being detected at ground level, nevertheless penetrate the atmosphere to tropospheric altitudes. This effect could be further amplified by an increase in mean lightning stroke intensity that brings more strokes above the detection threshold of the ATD system. In order to remove any potential seasonal bias the analysis was repeated for daily solar wind triggers occurring during the summer months (June to August). Though this reduced the number of solar wind triggers to 32, the response in both lightning and thunder day data remained statistically significant. This modulation of lightning by regular and predictable solar wind events may be beneficial to medium range forecasting of hazardous weather.
The technology of using ultrasonic vibration to reduce friction was applied in our experiment to improve the accuracy of viscosity measurements. The electromagnetically spinning (EMS) viscometer we developed has a remarkable feature: the sample viscosity can be measured in an entirely noncontact manner. Although the apparatus enables low-viscosity measurements of less than 10 mPa&s, which has been difficult to achieve using conventional rotation viscometers, the accuracy has been limited to 10% because of the harmful effect of mechanical friction. We made a new EMS system equipped with piezoactuators to excite ultrasonic vibration to the sample cell, thereby successfully reducing the mechanical friction to onethird that in the previous system. A theory to describe the mechanical friction between the rotating probe and oscillating substrate was also proposed and examined in comparison with the experimental results.
Objective. The bedside detection of potential awareness in patients with disorders of consciousness (DOC) currently relies only on behavioral observations and tests; however, the misdiagnosis rates in this patient group are historically relatively high. In this study, we proposed a visual hybrid brain-computer interface (BCI) combining P300 and steady-state evoked potential (SSVEP) responses to detect awareness in severely brain injured patients. Approach. Four healthy subjects, seven DOC patients who were in a vegetative state (VS, n = 4) or minimally conscious state (MCS, n = 3), and one locked-in syndrome (LIS) patient attempted a command-following experiment. In each experimental trial, two photos were presented to each patient; one was the patientʼs own photo, and the other photo was unfamiliar. The patients were instructed to focus on their own or the unfamiliar photos. The BCI system determined which photo the patient focused on with both P300 and SSVEP detections. Main results. Four healthy subjects, one of the 4 VS, one of the 3 MCS, and the LIS patient were able to selectively attend to their own or the unfamiliar photos (classification accuracy, 66-100%). Two additional patients (one VS and one MCS) failed to attend the unfamiliar photo (50-52%) but achieved significant accuracies for their own photo (64-68%). All other patients failed to show any significant response to commands (46-55%). Significance. Through the hybrid BCI system, command following was detected in four healthy subjects, two of 7 DOC patients, and one LIS patient. We suggest that the hybrid BCI system could be used as a supportive bedside tool to detect awareness in patients with DOC.
A cataphoretic input of calcium vapour into the active volume of pulsed He-Ca + laser is designed and made. The recombination laser at 373.3 nm and the R-M transition laser at 854.6 nm are achieved experimentally with modified Blumlein circuit by high-frequency longitudinal pulsed discharge. The dependences of work parameters such as the pulse frequency, the power supply voltage and the helium pressure on laser output characteristics at 373.3 nm line are measured and discussed. The maximum laser output power of 136 mW and the specific power of 5.9 mW/cm 3 are obtained, respectively.
When a star comes within a critical distance to a supermassive black hole (SMBH), immense tidal forces disrupt the star, resulting in a stream of debris that falls back onto the SMBH and powers a luminous flare. In this paper, we perform hydrodynamical simulations of the disruption of a main-sequence star by an SMBH to characterize the evolution of the debris stream after a tidal disruption. We demonstrate that this debris stream is confined by self-gravity in the two directions perpendicular to the original direction of the star's travel and as a consequence has a negligible surface area and makes almost no contribution to either the continuum or line emission. We therefore propose that any observed emission lines are not the result of photoionization in this unbound debris, but are produced in the region above and below the forming elliptical accretion disk, analogous to the broad-line region (BLR) in steadily accreting active galactic nuclei. As each line within a BLR is observationally linked to a particular location in the accretion disk, we suggest that the absence of a line indicates that the accretion disk does not yet extend to the distance required to produce that line. This model can be used to understand the spectral properties of the tidal disruption event PS1-10jh, for which He ii lines are observed, but the Balmer series and He i are not. Using a maximum likelihood analysis, we show that the disruption of a main-sequence star of near-solar composition can reproduce this event.
Analysis of a wide range of experimental results in plasma magnetic confinement investigations shows that in most cases, plasmas are self-organized. In the tokamak case, it is realized in the self-consistent pressure profile, which permits the tokamak plasma to be macroscopically MHD stable. Existing experimental data permit suggesting a hypothesis about the mechanism of pressure profile regulation and to give an explanation of such unusual phenomena as a nonlocal character of transport coefficients, enhanced speed of heat/cold pulse propagation and many modes of tokamak operation.
The status of searches for physics beyond the Standard Model is reviewed, in the light of the data from the Large Hadron Collider runs at 7 and 8 TeV centre-of-mass energy.
The spontaneous emission spectrum from two quantum dots (QDs) that are strongly coupled with a single-mode nanocavity is investigated using rigorous numerical calculations and simple analytical solutions of quantum dynamics. The emission spectra both from the side and along the axis of the cavity are considered. Modification of two parameters, the coupling strength and the detuning between the transition frequencies of the two quantum dots, allows us to efficiently control the shape of the spontaneous emission spectrum. Different profiles and their physical origins can be well understood in the dressed-state picture for the light-QD interaction in the on-resonance and off-resonance situations. In the on-resonance situation, the emission spectra exhibit symmetric features, and they are not altered by the asymmetry in the coupling parameters. The axis spectra show two emission peaks while the side spectra have three emission peaks. In the off-resonance situation, the emission spectra always show an asymmetrical three-peak feature. When the two QDs have different decay parameters, singular features (a peak or a dip) can take place at the frequency of the cavity mode, and this is attributed to the unbalanced process of the emission and absorption of a single photon.
The technology of using ultrasonic vibration to reduce friction was applied in our experiment to improve the accuracy of viscosity measurements. The electromagnetically spinning (EMS) viscometer we developed has a remarkable feature: the sample viscosity can be measured in an entirely noncontact manner. Although the apparatus enables low-viscosity measurements of less than 10 mPa&s, which has been difficult to achieve using conventional rotation viscometers, the accuracy has been limited to 10% because of the harmful effect of mechanical friction. We made a new EMS system equipped with piezoactuators to excite ultrasonic vibration to the sample cell, thereby successfully reducing the mechanical friction to onethird that in the previous system. A theory to describe the mechanical friction between the rotating probe and oscillating substrate was also proposed and examined in comparison with the experimental results.
Pair coherent state, is a state of a two-mode radiation field that is known as a state with non-gaussian wave function. In this paper, study on the pair coherent state, we notice that with superposition of two first terms of this states, one two-qubits formed. Because of the importance of two-qubits in theory of quantum entanglement, with two different measures with the title of concurrence and D-concurrence, we have studied the amount of entanglement and discussed its details. At the end, we describe these measures for pair coherent states as a function of the amplitude of the SU(2) coherent states.
Control of the electron energy distribution function (EEDF) is investigated through applying an inductive field in oxygen capacitively coupled plasma (CCP). With the addition of a small amount of antenna coil power to the CCP, low energy electrons are effectively heated and the EEDF is controlled. This method is applied to the ashing process of the photoresistor (PR). It is revealed that the ashing rate of the PR is significantly increased due to O radicals produced by the controlled EEDF, even though the ion density/energy flux is not increased. The roles of the power transfer mode in the electron heating and plasma control are also presented in the hybrid plasma source with inductive and capacitive fields. This work provides a route to enhance or control the processing result.
Analysis of a wide range of experimental results in plasma magnetic confinement investigations shows that in most cases, plasmas are self-organized. In the tokamak case, it is realized in the self-consistent pressure profile, which permits the tokamak plasma to be macroscopically MHD stable. Existing experimental data permit suggesting a hypothesis about the mechanism of pressure profile regulation and to give an explanation of such unusual phenomena as a nonlocal character of transport coefficients, enhanced speed of heat/cold pulse propagation and many modes of tokamak operation.
We present deep 3.6 cm radio continuum observations of the H ii region W40 obtained using the Very Large Array (VLA) in its A and B configurations. We detect a total of 20 compact radio sources in a region of 4 × 4 , with 11 of them concentrated in a band with 30 of extent. We also present JHK photometry of the W40 cluster taken with the QUIRC instrument on the University of Hawaii 2.2 m telescope. These data reveal that 15 of the 20 VLA sources have infrared counterparts, and 10 show radio variability with periods less than 20 days. Based on these combined radio and IR data, we propose that eight of the radio sources are candidate ultracompact H ii regions, seven are likely to be young stellar objects, and two may be shocked interstellar gas.
The diffuse soft X-ray background comes from distant galaxies, from hot Galactic gas, and from within the solar system. The latter emission arises from charge exchange between highly charged solar wind ions and neutral gas. This so-called solar wind charge exchange (SWCX) emission is spatially and temporally variable and interferes with our measurements of more distant cosmic emission while also providing important information on the nature of the solar wind-interstellar medium interaction. We present the results of our analysis of eight Chandra observations of the Chandra Deep Field North (CDFN) with the goal of measuring the cosmic and SWCX contributions to the X-ray background. Our modeling of both geocoronal and heliospheric SWCX emission is the most detailed for any observation to date. After allowing for ∼30% uncertainty in the SWCX emission and subtracting it from the observational data, we estimate that the flux of cosmic background for the CDFN in the O vii Kα, Kβ, and O viii Lyα lines totals 5.8 ± 1.1 photons s -1 cm -2 sr -1 (or LU). Heliospheric SWCX emission varied for each observation due to differences in solar wind conditions and the line of sight through the solar system, but was typically about half as strong as the cosmic background (i.e., one-third of the total) in those lines. The modeled geocoronal emission was 0.82 LU in one observation but averaged only 0.15 LU in the others. Our measurement of the cosmic background is lower than but marginally consistent with previous estimates based on XMM-Newton data.
Galaxy interactions/mergers have been shown to dominate the population of IR-luminous galaxies (L IR 10 11.6 L ) in the local universe (z 0.25). Recent studies based on the relation between galaxies' star formation rates and stellar mass (the SFR-M * relation or the "galaxy main sequence") have suggested that galaxy interaction/mergers may only become significant when galaxies fall well above the galaxy main sequence. Since the typical SFR at a given M * increases with redshift, the existence of the galaxy main sequence implies that massive, IR-luminous galaxies at high z may not necessarily be driven by galaxy interactions. We examine the role of galaxy interactions in the SFR-M * relation by carrying out a morphological analysis of 2084 Herschel-selected galaxies at 0.2 < z < 1.5 in the COSMOS field. Using a detailed visual classification scheme, we show that the fraction of "disk galaxies" decreases and the fraction of "irregular" galaxies increases systematically with increasing L IR out to z 1.5 and z 1.0, respectively. At L IR > 10 11.5 L , 50% of the objects show evident features of strongly interacting/merger systems, where this percentage is similar to the studies of local IR-luminous galaxies. The fraction of interacting/ merger systems also systematically increases with the deviation from the SFR-M * relation, supporting the view that galaxies falling above the main sequence are more dominated by mergers than the main-sequence galaxies. Meanwhile, we find that 18% of massive IR-luminous "main-sequence galaxies" are classified as interacting systems, where this population may not evolve through the evolutionary track predicted by a simple gas exhaustion model.
This paper proposes a configuration of the radio frequency surface acoustic wave (SAW) filter with wide tunability for both the passband width and the center frequency. At first, it is shown how the center frequency and the passband width are adjustable with the VC setting. It is also shown that a flat passband and steep transition bands are realizable when multiple stages are cascaded with mirror inversion. Then, influence of Q factors is discussed. Finally, two types of tunable filters are designed, and applicability of this filter topology is demonstrated.
We demonstrate experimentally a radio frequency arbitrary waveform generator using the incoherent wavelengthto-time mapping technique. The system is implemented by amplitude modulation of a broadband optical resource whose spectrum is reshaped by a programmable optical pulse shaper and transmitted over a single mode fiber link. The shape of the generated waveform is controlled by the optical pulse shaper, and the fiber link introduces a certain group velocity delay to implement wavelength-to-time mapping. Assisted by the flexible optical pulse shaper, we obtain different shapes of optical waveforms, such as rectangle, triangle, and sawtooth waveforms. Furthermore, we also demonstrate ultra-wideband generation, such as Gaussian monocycle, doublet, and triplet waveforms, using the incoherent technique.
We present a method to implement probabilistic treatment planning of intensitymodulated radiation therapy using custom software plugins in a commercial treatment planning system. Our method avoids the definition of safety-margins by directly including the effect of geometrical uncertainties during optimization when objective functions are evaluated. Because the shape of the resulting dose distribution implicitly defines the robustness of the plan, the optimizer has much more flexibility than with a margin-based approach. We expect that this added flexibility helps to automatically strike a better balance between target coverage and dose reduction for surrounding healthy tissue, especially for cases where the planning target volume overlaps organs at risk. Prostate cancer treatment planning was chosen to develop our method, including a novel technique to include rotational uncertainties. Based on population statistics, translations and rotations are simulated independently following a markerbased IGRT correction strategy. The effects of random and systematic errors are incorporated by first blurring and then shifting the dose distribution with respect to the clinical target volume. For simplicity and efficiency, dose-shift invariance and a rigid-body approximation are assumed. Three prostate cases were replanned using our probabilistic objective functions. To compare clinical and probabilistic plans, an evaluation tool was used that explicitly incorporates geometric uncertainties using Monte-Carlo methods. The new plans achieved similar or better dose distributions than the original clinical plans in terms of expected target coverage and rectum wall sparing. Plan optimization times were only about a factor of two higher than in the original clinical system. In conclusion, we have developed a practical planning tool that enables marginless probability-based treatment planning with acceptable planning times, achieving the first system that is feasible for clinical implementation.
The attenuation of high-energy gamma-ray spectrum due to the electron-positron pair production against the extragalactic background light (EBL) provides an indirect method to measure the EBL of the universe. We use the measurements of the absorption features of the gamma-rays from blazars as seen by the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope to explore the EBL flux density and constrain the EBL spectrum, star formation rate density (SFRD), and photon escape fraction from galaxies out to z = 6. Our results are basically consistent with the existing determinations of the quantities. We find a larger photon escape fraction at high redshifts, especially at z = 3, compared to the result from recent Lyα measurements. Our SFRD result is consistent with the data from both gamma-ray burst and ultraviolet (UV) observations in the 1σ level. However, the average SFRD we obtain at z 3 matches the gamma-ray data better than the UV data. Thus our SFRD result at z 6 favors the fact that star formation alone is sufficiently high enough to reionize the universe.
We report the detection of an X-ray absorption feature near the galaxy M86 in the Virgo cluster. The absorber has a column density of 2-3 × 10 20 cm -2 , and its position coincides with the peak of an intracluster H i cloud which was removed from the galaxy NGC 4388 presumably by ram pressure. These results indicate that the H i cloud is located in front of M86 along the line-of-sight, and suggest that the stripping was primarily created by an interaction between NGC 4388 and the hot plasmas of the Virgo cluster, not the M86 halo. By calculating an X-ray temperature map, we further detected an X-ray counterpart of the H i cloud up to ≈3 south of M86. It has a temperature of 0.89 keV and a mass of ∼4.5 × 10 8 M , exceeding the estimated H i gas mass. The high hot-to-cold gas ratio in the cloud indicates a significant evaporation of the H i gas, probably by thermal conduction from the hotter cluster plasma with a sub-Spitzer rate.
This paper investigates the stereodynamics of the reaction He+HD + by the quasi-classical trajectory (QCT) method using the most accurate AQUILANTI surface [Aquilanti et al 2000 Mol. Phys. 98 1835]. The distribution P (φr) of dihedral angle and the distribution P (θr) of angle between k and j have been presented at three different collision energies. Four generalized polarization-dependent differential cross-sections (2π/σ)(dσ 00 /dωt), (2π/σ)(dσ 20 /dωt), (2π/σ)(dσ 22+ /dωt), (2π/σ)(dσ 21-/dωt) are also calculated. Some interesting results are obtained from the comparison of the stereodynamics of the title reaction at different collision energies.
We report the annealing-temperature-dependent evolution of nanosized pits on a poly(methyl methacrylate) film spin-coated on a glass substrate. The pits are formed on the polymer surface as the toluene solvent evaporates rapidly. The depth and width of the pits are measured by atomic force microscopy after the film is annealed at ambient temperature, below and above the glass transition temperature (105 C) of the polymer, respectively. Compared with the statistical results obtained at ambient temperature, the pits are shallow and narrow on the film annealed at 75 C as molecular vibration expands the film. However, it is found that the pits are deeper and wider on the film annealed at 120 C than on the films annealed at the other two temperatures, which results from the evaporation of the inner residual toluene in the polymer film.
A large signal model for InP/InGaAs double heterojunction bipolar transistors including thermal effects has been reported, which demonstrated good agreements of simulations with measurements. On the basis of the previous model in which the double heterojunction effect, current blocking effect and high current effect in current expression are considered, the effect of bandgap narrowing with temperature has been considered in transport current while a formula for model parameters as a function of temperature has been developed. This model is implemented by Verilog-A and embedded in ADS. The proposed model is verified with DC and large signal measurements.
We present a mid-infrared analysis of star-formation activity in the Large Magellanic Cloud's molecular ridge (south of 30 Doradus). The Magellanic Clouds are a rare laboratory in which extragalactic star-formation diagnostics can be tested at high spatial resolution. The southern part of the molecular ridge is particularly interesting as a potential extreme in the range of molecular cloud conditions, because of the apparent paucity (in optical tracers) of star formation compared to its gas mass. Our Spitzer observations are sensitive to protostars 3 M , and we estimate a total star-formation luminosity of 5 × 10 6 L in 2 × 10 6 M of molecular material. Detailed modeling of individual infrared-detected star-formation regions yields a total mass of star formation in the region consistent with that predicted by the gas surface density via the Schmitt-Kennicutt relation. The star-formation activity is distributed in rather low-luminosity regions, so the total star-formation rate determined by our infrared analysis is higher than would be predicted simply by the total Hα and 24 µm luminosities. Detailed analysis in very nearby galaxies, like the Magellanic Clouds, allows us to test and better understand the scaling relations used in unresolved and distant star-formation regions. Finally, we analyze the star-formation regions in the context of their individual molecular clouds and find that clouds with a higher ratio of CO mass to virial mass are more vigorously forming stars.
The natural electrical conductivity of several organic liquids has been measured using transformer-coupled ratio arm bridges over a range of temperatures and pressures. Among these, n-hexane, diethyl hexyl sebacate and several alcohols showed a tendency for conductivity to fall with pressure. However, diethyl ether, carbon disulphide and, above 2500 bar, castor oil showed a tendency for conductivity to rise with pressure.
Various properties of Keplerian orbits traced by satellites that are launched from one and the same spatial point with different initial velocities are discussed. Two families of elliptical orbits are investigated, namely the sets of orbits produced by a common direction but different magnitudes of the initial velocities, and by a common magnitude but various directions of the initial velocities. For the latter family, the envelope of all the orbits is found, which is the boundary of the spatial region occupied by the orbits.
Statistical properties of environments experienced by biological signaling systems in the real world change, which necessitates adaptive responses to achieve high fidelity information transmission. One form of such adaptive response is gain control. Here, we argue that a certain simple mechanism of gain control, understood well in the context of systems neuroscience, also works for molecular signaling. The mechanism allows us to transmit more than 1 bit (on or off) of information about the signal independent of the signal variance. It does not require additional molecular circuitry beyond that already present in many molecular systems, and in particular, it does not depend on existence of feedback loops. The mechanism provides a potential explanation for abundance of ultrasensitive response curves in biological regulatory networks.
We present a framework for analyzing luminescence regulation during quorum sensing in the bioluminescent bacterium Vibrio harveyi. Using a simplified model for signal transduction in the quorum sensing pathway, we identify key dimensionless parameters that control the system's response. These parameters are estimated using experimental data on luminescence phenotypes for different mutant strains. The corresponding model predictions are consistent with results from other experiments which did not serve as input for determining model parameters. Furthermore, the proposed framework leads to novel testable predictions for luminescence phenotypes and for responses of the network to different perturbations.
A compact and tunable size-based flow fractionation microchip using negative dielectrophoresis (DEP) is presented in this paper. In the microchip, a sample containing a mixture of particles is hydrodynamically focused in a contraction section and then sorted by size after flowing over planar interdigitated electrodes. The electrodes and flow chamber were aligned at an angle of 45° to produce effective sorting. 1, 2.5 and 4.8 µm polystyrene (PS) particles were successfully separated into three distinct streams in a short distance (1 mm) and collected in different outlet channels. The sorting was subjected to flow rates and electric potential. The experimental sorting efficiencies of 1, 2.5 and 4.8 µm particles reached 97.2%, 79.6% and 99.8%, respectively. With the same device, lipid vesicle sorting was demonstrated. 86.9% of vesicles larger than 10 µm were effectively extracted from the sample stream. Likewise, sorting of other biological particles can be achieved in the same fashion.
We describe a reliable technique to separate the different contributions to the apparent base resistance (R B = R Bx + X R Bi ) of silicon germanium carbon (SiGe:C) heterojunction bipolar transistors (HBTs). The extrinsic base resistance (R Bx ) is quantified using small-signal measurements. The base-collector junction distribution factor (X) and the intrinsic base resistance (R Bi ) are extracted from high frequency noise (MWN) measurements. This method is applied to five different SiGe:C HBTs varying in base doping level and germanium content. The results show that high doping levels improve high frequency noise performances while germanium gradient helps to maintain outstanding dynamic performances. This method could be used to elucidate the base technological configuration that ensures low noise together with remarkable dynamic performances in state-of-the-art SiGe:C HBTs.
We present a framework for analyzing luminescence regulation during quorum sensing in the bioluminescent bacterium Vibrio harveyi. Using a simplified model for signal transduction in the quorum sensing pathway, we identify key dimensionless parameters that control the system's response. These parameters are estimated using experimental data on luminescence phenotypes for different mutant strains. The corresponding model predictions are consistent with results from other experiments which did not serve as input for determining model parameters. Furthermore, the proposed framework leads to novel testable predictions for luminescence phenotypes and for responses of the network to different perturbations.
This paper is intended to apply the potential integration method to the differential equations of the Birkhoffian system. The method is that, for a given Birkhoffian system, its differential equations are first rewritten as 2n first-order differential equations. Secondly, the corresponding partial differential equations are obtained by potential integration method and the solution is expressed as a complete integral. Finally, the integral of the system is obtained.
Based on the Husimi operator in pure state form introduced by Fan et al., which is a squeezed coherent state projector, and the technique of integration within an ordered product (IWOP) of operators, as well as the entangled state representations, we obtain the Husimi functions of the excited squeezed vacuum states (ESVS) and two marginal distributions of the Husimi functions of the ESVS.
Continuing the programme of constructing the backreacted solution corresponding to smeared anti-D3 branes in the warped deformed conifold, we solve analytically the equations governing the space of first-order deformations around this solution. We express the results in terms of at most three nested integrals. These are the simplest expressions for the space of SU (2) × SU (2) × Z 2 -invariant deformations, in which the putative solution for smeared anti-D3 branes must live. We also explain why one cannot claim to identify this solution without fully relating the coefficients of the infrared and ultraviolet expansions of the deformation modes. The analytic solution we find is the first step in this direction.
We investigate the Lax equation that can be employed to describe motions of long waves in shallow water under gravity. A nonlocal symmetry of this equation is given and used to find exact solutions and derive lower integrable models from higher ones. It is interesting that this nonlocal symmetry links with its corresponding Riccati-type pseudopotential. By introducing suitable and simple auxiliary dependent variables, the nonlocal symmetry is localized and used to generate new solutions from trivial solutions. Meanwhile, this equation is reduced to an ordinary differential equation by means of this nonlocal symmetry and some local symmetries.
We present a mid-infrared analysis of star-formation activity in the Large Magellanic Cloud's molecular ridge (south of 30 Doradus). The Magellanic Clouds are a rare laboratory in which extragalactic star-formation diagnostics can be tested at high spatial resolution. The southern part of the molecular ridge is particularly interesting as a potential extreme in the range of molecular cloud conditions, because of the apparent paucity (in optical tracers) of star formation compared to its gas mass. Our Spitzer observations are sensitive to protostars 3 M , and we estimate a total star-formation luminosity of 5 × 10 6 L in 2 × 10 6 M of molecular material. Detailed modeling of individual infrared-detected star-formation regions yields a total mass of star formation in the region consistent with that predicted by the gas surface density via the Schmitt-Kennicutt relation. The star-formation activity is distributed in rather low-luminosity regions, so the total star-formation rate determined by our infrared analysis is higher than would be predicted simply by the total Hα and 24 µm luminosities. Detailed analysis in very nearby galaxies, like the Magellanic Clouds, allows us to test and better understand the scaling relations used in unresolved and distant star-formation regions. Finally, we analyze the star-formation regions in the context of their individual molecular clouds and find that clouds with a higher ratio of CO mass to virial mass are more vigorously forming stars.
In the hole-doped, high-temperature superconducting cuprates, an intrinsic heterogeneity is found, from the early observations to recent data. Below optimum doping, the heterogeneity consists of dynamic metallic and, at low temperatures, superconducting regions in the form of clusters or stripes, which develop and decay as a function of time and location in the antiferromagnetic lattice. This behaviour is underlined by the interesting linear relation between the oxygen isotope shifts of the magnetic penetration depth and the critical temperature with a slope that is a factor 2 larger than expected for the homogeneous distribution of superfluid density. Allusion is also made to the Bose-Einstein condensation reported in structurally heterogeneous, polycrystalline polymer platelets as well as especially to the heterogeneous distribution of visible and dark matter in the Universe, which point to a change of paradigm in modern physics. perspective
Rhythm of brain activities represents oscillations of postsynaptic potentials in neocortex, therefore it can serve as an indicator of the brain activity state. In order to check the connectivity of brain rhythm, this paper develops a new method of constructing functional network based on phase synchronization. Electroencephalogram (EEG) data were collected while subjects looking at a green cross in two states, performing an attention task and relaxing with eyes-open. The EEG from these two states was filtered by three band-pass filters to obtain signals of theta (4-7 Hz), alpha (8-13 Hz) and beta (14-30 Hz) bands. Mean resultant length was used to estimate strength of phase synchronization in three bands to construct networks of both states, and mean degree K and cluster coefficient C of networks were calculated as a function of threshold. The result shows higher cluster coefficient in the attention state than in the eyes-open state in all three bands, suggesting that cluster coefficient reflects brain state. In addition, an obvious fronto-parietal network is found in the attention state, which is a well-known attention network. These results indicate that attention modulates the fronto-parietal connectivity in different modes as compared with the eyes-open state. Taken together this method is an objective and important tool to study the properties of neural networks of brain rhythm.
A cataphoretic input of calcium vapour into the active volume of pulsed He-Ca + laser is designed and made. The recombination laser at 373.3 nm and the R-M transition laser at 854.6 nm are achieved experimentally with modified Blumlein circuit by high-frequency longitudinal pulsed discharge. The dependences of work parameters such as the pulse frequency, the power supply voltage and the helium pressure on laser output characteristics at 373.3 nm line are measured and discussed. The maximum laser output power of 136 mW and the specific power of 5.9 mW/cm 3 are obtained, respectively.
The magnetization processes in binary magnetic/non-magnetic amorphous alloy Hf 57 Fe 43 are investigated by the detailed measurement of magnetic hysteresis loops, temperature dependence of magnetization, relaxation of magnetization and magnetic ac susceptibility, including a nonlinear term. Blocking of magnetic moments at lower temperatures is accompanied by the slow relaxation of magnetization and magnetic hysteresis loops. All of the observed properties are explained by the superparamagnetic behaviour of the single domain magnetic clusters inside the non-magnetic host, their blocking by the anisotropy barriers and thermal fluctuation over the barriers accompanied by relaxation of magnetization. From magnetic viscosity analysis based on thermal relaxation over the anisotropy barriers it is found that magnetic clusters occupy the characteristic volume from 25 up to 200 nm 3 . The validity of the superparamagnetic model of Hf 57 Fe 43 is based on the concentration of iron in the Hf 100-x Fe x system that is just below the threshold for long range magnetic ordering. This work also throws more light on the magnetic behaviour of other amorphous alloys.
A PIC (particle-in-cell)-MC (Monte Carlo) code to model electron beam transport into dense matter is developed. The background target is treated as a cold, stationary fluid and the fast electrons as particles with the relativistic motions. The process is described by a particle-in-cell method with consideration of the influence of both the self-generated electric and magnetic fields as well as collisions between the fast electrons and the target. The collisional part of the code is solved by the Monte Carlo-type method. Furthermore by assuming that the background current balances with the fast electron current, the electric field is given by the Ohm's law and the magnetic field is calculated from the Faraday's law. Both are solved in a two-dimensional cylindrical geometry. The algorithms implemented in the code are demonstrated and the numerical experiments are performed for monoenergy homogeneous fast electron beam transport in an aluminum target when the fields, collision and angular scattering are switched on and off independently.
Taken together, the Voyager 1 and 2 (V1 and V2) spacecraft have collected over 11 yr of data in the heliosheath. Despite extensive study, energetic particles and magnetic fields measured in the heliosheath have not been reconciled by existing models. In particular, the differences between the energetic particle intensity variations at V1 and V2 are unexplained. While energetic particle intensities at V1 change gradually over 7 yr in the heliosheath, those at V2 vary by a factor ∼10 in 1 yr. Energetic particle intensities at V2 show temporally coherent variations over a broad range of species and energies: from suprathermal ions (10s of keV) to galactic cosmic rays (>1 GeV), as well as electrons from 10s of keV to >100 MeV, corresponding to a range ∼10 4 in particle gyroradii. Here we suggest that many of the intensity variations of energetic particle populations in the heliosheath are organized by their proximity to two fundamentally different regions-the unipolar heliosheath (UHS) and the sectored heliosheath (SHS). The SHS is a region of enhanced particle intensities, wherein particle transport, acceleration, and magnetic connectivity differ from those in the UHS. The SHS may serve as either a reservoir of energetic particles or as a region of enhanced transport, depending on the particle species and energy. Comparatively, particle intensities in the UHS are greatly reduced. We propose that the boundary between the SHS and UHS plays as important a role in the physics of heliosheath particles and fields as do the termination shock and heliopause.
A large change in the magnetic entropy, | S|, was observed in the Febased NaZn 13 -type compound LaFe 11.375 Al 1.625 , which was nearly temperature independent over a wide temperature range (an about 70 K span from ∼140 to 210 K). This behaviour of the magnetic entropy change is associated with two closely spaced magnetic transitions. X-ray diffraction investigation at different temperatures indicates that the crystal structure remains cubic, of NaZn 13 type, when the magnetic state changes with temperature, but the cell parameter changes dramatically at the first-order transition point.
We consider constraints on purely kinetic 𝑘-essence models from the latest observational data (including 182 gold SNIa data, the shift parameter, and the acoustic scale). We find the best-fit values of the parameters are Ω𝑚 = 0.37 ± 0.01 and 𝑘0 = 0.064 ± 0.013 at 68.3% confidence level. The phase transition from deceleration to acceleration is found to occur at redshift 𝑧𝑞=0 ∼ 0.48-0.52 in 68.3% confidence level limits. By applying modelcomparison statistics (F-test, AIC𝑐, and BIC), we find that the purely kinetic 𝑘-essence scenario is favored over the ΛCDM model by the combined data. These results are also confirmed by combined data 307 SNIa +𝑅 + 𝑙𝑎.
The transmission characteristics of phase modulation pulse transmitted through the filter in the power amplifier are investigated theoretically and experimentally. The narrow bandpass filter can induce large temporal modulation depth for the phase modulation pulse and induce double amplitude modulation (AM) if the frequency shift is lower than half bandwidth of the signal spectrum. We should choose a wider bandwidth filter to minimize the impact of the filter on the output pulse and suppress the amplified spontaneous emission (ASE) for the power fiber amplifier. These results are of benefit to the design of the fiber front end system.
As we know, the majority of metal-poor Galactic halo stars appear to have chemical abundances that were enhanced by α-elements (e.g., O, Mg, Si, Ca, and Ti) during the early stage of the Galaxy. Observed metal-poor halo stars preserved this pattern by exhibiting abundance ratios [α/Fe] ∼ +0.4. A few striking exceptions that show severe departures from the general enhanced α-element chemical abundance trends of the halo have been discovered in recent years. They possess relatively low [α/Fe] compared to other comparable-metallicity stars, with abundance ratios over 0.5 dex lower. These stars may have a different chemical enrichment history from the majority of the halo. Similarly, low-α abundances are also displayed by satellite dwarf spheroidal (dSph) galaxies. We present a method to select extremely α-poor (EAP) stars from the SDSS/SEGUE survey. The method consists of a two-step approach. In the first step, we select suspected metal-poor ([Fe/H] < -0.5) and α-poor ([Mg/Fe] < 0) stars as our targets. In the second step, we determine [Mg/Fe] from low-resolution (R = 2000) stellar spectra for our targets and select stars with [Mg/Fe] < -0.1 as candidate EAP stars. In a sample of 40,000 stars with atmospheric parameters in the range of T eff = [4500, 7000] K, log g = [1.0, 5.0], and [Fe/H] = [-4.0, + 0.5], 14 candidate stars were identified. Three of these stars are found to have already been confirmed by other research.
The spatial clustering of QSOs is an important measurable quantity which can be used to infer the properties of dark matter halos that host them. We construct a simple QSO model to explain the linear bias of QSOs measured by recent observations and explore the properties of dark matter halos that host a QSO. We assume that major mergers of dark matter halos can lead to the triggering of QSO phenomena, and the evolution of luminosity for a QSO generally shows two accretion phases, i.e., initially having a constant Eddington ratio due to the self-regulation of the accretion process when supply is sufficient, and then declining in rate with time as a power law due to either diminished supply or long term disk evolution. Using a Markov Chain Monte Carlo method, the model parameters are constrained by fitting the observationally determined QSO luminosity functions (LFs) in the hard X-ray and in the optical band simultaneously. Adopting the model parameters that best fit the QSO LFs, the linear bias of QSOs can be predicted and then compared with the observational measurements by accounting for various selection effects in different QSO surveys. We find that the latest measurements of the linear bias of QSOs from both the SDSS and BOSS QSO surveys can be well reproduced. The typical mass of SDSS QSOs at redshift 1.5 < z < 4.5 is ∼ (3 -6) × 10 12 h -1 M ⊙ and the typical mass of BOSS QSOs at z ∼ 2.4 is ∼ 2 × 10 12 h -1 M ⊙ . For relatively faint QSOs, the mass distribution of their host dark matter halos is wider than that of bright QSOs because faint QSOs can be hosted in both big halos and smaller halos, but bright QSOs are only hosted in big halos, which is part of the reason for the predicted weak dependence of the linear biases on the QSO luminosity.
Studies of the Peierls-type charge-density-wave (CDW) transitions on metal surfaces are reviewed. After the background is reviewed based on the theoretical and experimental works on such transitions in bulk quasi-low-dimensional materials, two prototypical examples are presented. One is the well known surface reconstruction transition on W(001) and Mo(001), for which there was a long-standing controversy whether the transition is due to the CDW formation or the local bonding. It is emphasized that these two pictures do not contradict each other but describe the equivocal nature of this phenomenon. The second example is the phase transition in ultrathin In films on Cu(001), which is governed by the nesting of the Fermi surface constituted by a nearly-freeelectron-like sp surface resonance band, in contrast with the case of W and Mo, where much-localized d-band surface resonances play a dominant role. Finally, the origin of the long-periodicity structures widely observed in sp metals on fcc(001) systems is discussed in terms of the Fermi-surface topology expected to be common in these systems, which would be driven by strong electronphonon coupling to lead these surfaces to the formation of the peculiar long periodicities.
We present an efficient and simple protocol to unambiguously distinguish 2 N mutual orthogonal N -qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states in polarization degree of freedom assisted by the frequency one. This scheme is based on N single photon Bell state measurements, which can be implemented non-locally. The success probability is 100% in principle and our scheme is feasible with current technology. All the advantages make our protocol meaningful and practical in quantum information processing.
Infinite densities are non-normalizable quasi-probability distributions that can describe the long-time properties of systems when ergodicity is broken and the equilibrium Boltzmann-Gibbs distribution fails. Their experimental observation has remained elusive so far. We here perform semiclassical Monte Carlo simulations of cold atoms in dissipative optical lattices with realistic parameters. We show that the momentum infinite density, as well as its scale invariance, should be observable in shallow potentials. We further evaluate the momentum autocorrelation function both in the stationary and nonstationary, aging regime.
The one-dimensional quantum spin-1/2 model with nearest-neighbor ferromagnetic and next-nearest-neighbor antiferromagnetic interaction is considered. The Hamiltonian is firstly rewritten in a form with rotated spin operators, then bosonized by using the linear spin wave approximation and then treated by using the Green function approach. An integral expression of the quantum correction to the classical ground state energy is derived. The critical behavior of the ground state energy in the vicinity of the transition point from the ferromagnetic to the singlet ground state is analyzed by numerical calculation and the result is -8𝛾 2 .
A combination of a ultra high vacuum arc deposition system and a recrystallization method was used to optimize the smoothness and thickness of thin-layer lead cathodes for superconducting niobium electron injectors. A non-filtered arc system was chosen to deposit Pb films on niobium. The films then underwent melting and recrystallization by treating them with pulsed argon ion beams in a rod plasma injector.
The steady-state propagation of a plane wave inside a nonlinear absorber is considered. We report a new kind of singularity that happens well inside the absorber. Some points appear inside the absorber where one component of the field is not continuous. Therefore, in this situation it is not possible to consider a second-order wave equation for the electric field.
Two deterministic schemes using the χ state as the entangled channel are put forward to realize the remote preparation of arbitrary two-and three-qubit states. To design the schemes, we construct sets of ingenious measurement bases, which have no restrictions on the coefficients of the prepared state. At variance with the existing schemes via the χ state, the success probabilities of the proposed schemes are greatly improved.
The resource theories of quantum coherence attract a lot of attention in recent years. Especially, the monotonicity property plays a crucial role here. In this paper we investigate the monotonicity property for the coherence measures induced by the Rényi α-relative entropy, which present in [Phys. Rev. A 94 (2016) 052336]. We show that the Rényi α-relative entropy of coherence does not in general satisfy the monotonicity requirement under the subselection of measurements condition and it also does not satisfy the extension of monotonicity requirement, which presents in [Phys.  Rev. A 93 (2016) 032136]. Due to the Rényi α-relative entropy of coherence can act as a coherence monotone quantifier, we examine the trade-off relations between coherence and mixedness. Finally, some properties for the single qubit of Rényi 2-relative entropy of coherence are derived.
We develop a new geometric approach to deal with qubit information systems using colored graph theory.
Several quantum signature schemes are recently proposed to realize secure signatures of quantum or classical messages. Arbitrated quantum signature as one nontrivial scheme has attracted great interests because of its usefulness and efficiency. Unfortunately, previous schemes cannot against Trojan horse attack and DoS attack and lack of the unforgeability and the non-repudiation. In this paper, we propose an improved arbitrated quantum signature to address these secure issues with the honesty arbitrator. Our scheme takes use of qubit states not entanglements. More importantly, the qubit scheme can achieve the unforgeability and the non-repudiation. Our scheme is also secure for other known quantum attacks.
In this work, we carry out the analysis of the resonance absorption of electromagnetic radiation for the system in which para-and ferromagnetic phases coexist over a wide temperature region. It is found that taking account of the mutual influence of coexisting phases gives rise to the appearance of substantial changes in the curves of resonance absorption and values of resonance fields, as well as to making the geometry of a phase distribution dependent on an external magnetic field. Near the temperature boundaries of the phase coexistence region, the expressions for description of the curves of the dispersive absorption of electromagnetic radiation are obtained and the rules of the behaviour of the resonance fields for each of the phases are specified. As follows from the calculations, the resonance field for the paramagnetic phase becomes dependent on the shape of the sample, the saturation magnetization and the fraction of ferromagnetic phase. It is shown that the character of magnetic resonance spectra and the features of their temperature change agree well with the experimental data, obtained by various groups of researchers on the single crystalline and polycrystalline samples of doped perovskite manganites.
We construct a differential algebra of forms on the kappa-deformed space. For a given realization of noncommutative coordinates as formal power series in the Weyl algebra we find an infinite family of one-forms and nilpotent exterior derivatives. We derive explicit expressions for the exterior derivative and oneforms in covariant and noncovariant realizations. We also introduce higher order forms and show that the exterior derivative satisfies the graded Leibniz rule. The differential forms are generally not graded commutative, but they satisfy the graded Jacobi identity. We also consider the star-product of classical differential forms. The star-product is well defined if the commutator between the noncommutative coordinates and one-forms is closed in the space of oneforms alone. In addition, we show that in certain realizations the exterior derivative acting on the star-product satisfies the undeformed Leibniz rule.
This paper gives the general expressions for the compliance s ijkl , Young's modulus E(hkl) and Poisson's ratio υ(hkl, θ) along arbitrary loading direction [hkl] for tetragonal crystals. The representation surface for which the length of the radius vector in the [hkl] direction equals E(hkl) and representation curve for which the length of the radius vector with angle θ deviated from the reference directions [001], [100], [001], [101] and [112] equals υ(100, θ), υ (001, θ),  υ(110, θ), υ(101, θ) and υ(111, θ) respectively, are constructed for nine tetragonal crystals (ammonium dihydrogen arsenate, ammonium dihydrogen phosphate, barium titanate, indium, nickel sulfate, potassium dihydrogen arsenate, potassium dihydrogen phosphate, tin and zircon). The characteristics of them are analysed in detail.
The accurate weighing of gas into high-pressure cylinders plays a central role in providing traceability for primary gas mixtures. The uncertainties in the masses of successive components added to such mixtures are significantly correlated. We show that a consequence is that the amount fraction of the resulting mixture is not influenced by changes in buoyancy due to the linear expansion of the cylinder. This result will provide a useful simplification to some procedures used in gas metrology.
Ultraviolet and visible spectra of the symbiotic nova RR Telescopii are used to derive reference wavelengths for many forbidden and intercombination transitions of ions +1 to +6 of elements C, N, O, Ne, Na, Mg, Al, Si, P, S, Cl, Ar, K, and Ca. The wavelengths are then used to determine new energy values for the levels within the ions' ground configurations or first excited configuration. The spectra were recorded by the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph of the Hubble Space Telescope and the Ultraviolet Echelle Spectrograph of the European Southern Observatory in 2000 and 1999, respectively, and cover 1140-6915 Å. Particular care was taken to assess the accuracy of the wavelength scale between the two instruments. An investigation of the profiles of the emission lines reveals that the nebula consists of at least two plasma components at different velocities. The components have different densities, and a simple model of the lines' emissions demonstrates that most of the lines principally arise from the high density component. Only these lines were used for the wavelength study.
The light curves of 252 B-star candidates in the Kepler database are analyzed in a similar fashion to that done by Balona et al. to further characterize B-star variability, increase the sample of variable B stars for future study, and to identify stars whose power spectra include particularly interesting features such as frequency groupings. Stars are classified as either constant light emitters, β Cep stars, slowly pulsating B stars (SPBs), hybrid pulsators, binaries or stars whose light curves are dominated by rotation (Bin/Rot), hot subdwarfs, or white dwarfs. One-hundred stars in our sample were found to be either light constants or to be variable at a level of less than 0.02 mmag. We increase the number of candidate B-star variables found in the Kepler database by Balona et al. in the following fashion: β Cep stars from 0 to 10, SPBs from eight to 54, hybrid pulsators from seven to 21, and Bin/Rot stars from 23 to 82. For comparison purposes, approximately 51 SPBs and six hybrids had been known prior to 2007. The number of β Cep stars known prior to 2004 was 93. A secondary result of this study is the identification of an additional 11 pulsating white dwarf candidates, four of which possess frequency groupings.
In this work we study the relation between the regularity of invariant foliations and the Lyapunov exponents of partially hyperbolic diffeomorphisms. We suggest a new regularity condition for foliations in terms of disintegration of the Lebesgue measure which can be considered to be a criterium for the rigidity of Lyapunov exponents.
Radionuclides such as 211 At and 212 Bi which decay by the emission of αparticles are attractive for certain applications of targeted radiotherapy. The tissue penetration of 212 Bi and 211 At α-particles is equivalent to only a few cell diameters, offering the possibility of combining cell-specific targeting with radiation of similar range. Unlike the β-particles emitted by radionuclides such as 131 I and 90 Y, α-particles are radiation of high linear energy transfer and thus greater biological effectiveness. Several approaches have been explored for targeted radiotherapy with 212 Bi-and 211 At-labelled substances including colloids, monoclonal antibodies, metabolic precursors, receptor-avid ligands and other lower molecular weight molecules. An additional agent which exemplifies the promise of α-emitting radiopharmaceuticals is meta-[ 211 At]astatobenzylguanidine. The toxicity of this compound under single-cell conditions, determined both by [ 3 H]thymidine incorporation and by limiting dilution clonogenic assays, for human neuroblastoma cells is of the order of 1000 times higher than that of meta-[ 131 I]iodobenzylguanidine. For meta-[ 211 At]astatobenzylguanidine, the D 0 value was equivalent to only 6-7 211 At atoms bound per cell. These results suggest that meta-[ 211 At]astatobenzylguanidine might be valuable for the targeted radiotherapy of micrometastatic neuroblastomas.
We examine dust formation in macronovae (as known as kilonovae), which are the bright ejecta of neutron star binary mergers and one of the leading sites of r-process nucleosynthesis. In light of information about the first macronova candidate associated with GRB 130603B, we find that dust grains of r-process elements have difficulty forming because of the low number density of the r-process atoms, while carbon or elements lighter than iron can condense into dust if they are abundant. Dust grains absorb emission from ejecta with an opacity even greater than that of the r-process elements, and re-emit photons at infrared wavelengths. Such dust emission can potentially account for macronovae without r-process nucleosynthesis as an alternative model. This dust scenario predicts a spectrum with fewer features than the r-process model and day-scale optical-to-ultraviolet emission.
We study the structure of the constrained minimizers of the Gates-Lebowitz-Penrose free energy functional F GLP (m), non-local functional of a density field m(x), x ∈ T L , a d-dimensional torus of side length L. At low temperatures, F GLP is not convex, and has two distinct global minimizers, corresponding to two equilibrium states. Here we constrain the average density L -d T L m(x) dx to be a fixed value n between the densities in the two equilibrium states, but close to the low density equilibrium value. In this case, a 'droplet' of the high density phase may or may not form in a background of the low density phase, depending on the values n and L. We determine the critical density for droplet formation, and the nature of the droplet, as a function of n and L. The relation between the free energy and the large deviations functional for a particle model with long-range Kac potentials, proven in some cases, and expected to be true in general, then provides information on the structure of typical microscopic configurations of the Gibbs measure when the range of the Kac potential is large enough.
We present optical, X-ray and gamma-ray observations of GRB 111209A, observed at a redshift of z = 0.677. We show that this event was active in its prompt phase for about 25000 s, making it the longest burst ever observed. This rare event could have been detected up to z ∼ 1.4 in gamma-rays. Compared to other long gamma-ray bursts (GRBs), GRB 111209A is a clear outlier in the energy-fluence and duration plane. The high-energy prompt emission shows no sign of a strong blackbody component, the signature of a tidal disruption event, or a supernova shock breakout. Given the extreme longevity of this event, and lack of any significant observed supernova signature, we propose that GRB 111209A resulted from the core-collapse of a low-metallicity blue supergiant star. This scenario is favored because of the necessity to supply enough mass to the central engine over a duration of thousands of seconds. Hence, we suggest that GRB 111209A could have more in common with population III stellar explosions, rather than those associated with normal long GRBs.
We consider the orbital evolution of the S-stars, the young main-sequence stars near the supermassive black hole (SBH) at the Galactic center, and put constraints on competing models for their origin. Our analysis includes for the first time the joint effects of Newtonian and relativistic perturbations to the motion, including the dragging of inertial frames by a spinning SBH as well as torques due to finite-N asymmetries in the field-star distribution (resonant relaxation, RR). The evolution of the S-star orbits is strongly influenced by the Schwarzschild barrier (SB), the locus in the (E, L) plane where RR is ineffective at driving orbits to higher eccentricities. Formation models that invoke tidal disruption of binary stars by the SBH tend to place stars below (i.e., at higher eccentricities than) the SB; some stars remain below the barrier, but most stars are able to penetrate it, after which they are subject to RR and achieve a nearly thermal distribution of eccentricities. This process requires roughly 50 Myr in nuclear models with relaxed stellar cusps, or 10 Myr, regardless of the initial distribution of eccentricities, in nuclear models that include a dense cluster of 10 M black holes. We find a probability of 1% for any S-star to be tidally disrupted by the SBH over its lifetime.
We numerically study a novel scheme to improve the field enhancement of 2D hollow tapered waveguides (HTWs). A dielectric microcylinder is embedded into a metal-insulator-metal (MIM) HTW for resonant exciting gap surface plasmons (GSPs), which is different from the lowest propagating mode (TM 0 ) excitation via the conventional fire-end coupling method. The physical mechanism of the field enhancement and the influence of critical parameters such as numerical aperture (NA) of the lens, permittivity of the microcylinder and the incident wavelength are discussed. The substantial improvement of the GSP excitation efficiency via dielectric microcylinder coupling shows potential in designing tapered MIM waveguides for nanofocusing and field enhancement.
This paper presents a function describing the dependence of the neutron resonance level density ρ on the neutron number N in the target nucleus. The function describes quite well, with an accuracy of one order, the experimental data for 284 nuclides. Moreover, it adequately describes the general tendency and shell model effects for magic nuclei and for nuclei close to magic ones. The achieved agreement between the values obtained from the proposed description and the experimental data ρ exp can be improved if the ρ exp values are normalized energetically and reduced to a narrow range of angular momentum J.
Significant changes in the edge localized mode (ELM) crash heat load deposition patterns compared to typical ELMs are seen via infra-red observations during resonant magnetic perturbation experiments at the Joint European Torus (JET). These modifications result from the changed magnetic topology of the plasma, caused by the perturbations. Dependences on the perturbation strength and the edge safety factor are analysed and discussed. A thermoelectric current model shows that current filaments in the plasma edge could explain the observations. This study gives an insight into how the changed magnetic topology affects the peak heat fluxes of ELMs which is crucial for understanding ELM control.
In this paper, a (3 + 1)-dimensional generalized B-type Kadomtsev-Petviashvili (BKP) equation is mainly discussed. Based on the Wronskian technique, a Wronskian formulation is established. Generating functions for matrix entries satisfy a linear system of partial differential equations involving a free parameter. The resulting solutions formulae provide us with a comprehensive approach to constructing rational solutions, positons and complexitons for the (3 + 1)-dimensional generalized BKP equation.
We suggest that at least some of the large radiative corrections appearing in the spinfoam framework might be tied to the implicit sum over orientations. Specifically, we show that in a suitably simplified context the characteristic 'spike' (large-spin) divergence of the Ponzano-Regge model disappears when restricting the theory to just one of the two orientations appearing in the asymptotic limit of the vertex amplitude.
Several parametric scans have been performed to study momentum transport on JET. A neutral beam injection modulation technique has been applied to separate the diffusive and convective momentum transport terms. The magnitude of the inward momentum pinch depends strongly on the inverse density gradient length, with an experimental scaling for the pinch number being -Rv pinch /χ φ = 1.2R/L n + 1.4. There is no dependence of the pinch number on collisionality, whereas the pinch seems to depend weakly on q-profile, the pinch number decreasing with increasing q. The Prandtl number was not found to depend either on R/L n , collisionality or on q. The gyro-kinetic simulations show qualitatively similar dependence of the pinch number on R/L n , but the dependence is weaker in the simulations. Gyro-kinetic simulations do not find any clear parametric dependence in the Prandtl number, in agreement with experiments, but the experimental values are larger than the simulated ones, in particular in L-mode plasmas. The extrapolation of these results to ITER illustrates that at large enough R/L n > 2 the pinch number becomes large enough (>3-4) to make the rotation profile peaked, provided that the edge rotation is non-zero. And this rotation peaking can be achieved with small or even with no core torque source. The absolute value of the core rotation is still very challenging to predict partly due to the lack of the present knowledge of the rotation at the plasma edge, partly due to insufficient understanding of 3D effects like braking and partly due to the uncertainties in the extrapolation of the present momentum transport results to a larger device.
We demonstrate a silicon Mach-Zehnder interferometer (MZI) based magneto-optical isolator having an 8 nm bandwidth for more than 20 dB isolation. The operational bandwidth of the isolator is determined by the wavelength dependence of a reciprocal phase difference provided by the asymmetric path length of the MZI. Although a shorter path length requires precise control of the waveguide dimensions, we achieve widerbandwidth operation.
We have demonstrated an InP/InGaAs composite-channel metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor with a selectively regrown n þ -InGaAs source/drain formed by metal organic vapor-phase epitaxy. A 150-nm-long channel was fabricated using a dummy gate and by laterally buried regrowth in the channel undercut. The gate stack was formed after regrowth by replacing the dummy gate. The carrier density of the regrown layer was 4:9 Â 10 19 cm À3 . The maximum drain current at a drain voltage V d ¼ 1 V and a gate voltage V g ¼ 3 V was 0.93 mA/m and the maximum transconductance was 0.53 mS/m at V d ¼ 0:65 V.
Processing of group III-nitride materials such as AlN in the form of photonic crystals or microdiscs opens new perspectives for basic cavity quantum electrodynamic studies or the development of novel devices operating in the ultra-violet range. These devices can be either passive or active by embedding self-assembled GaN quantum dots. We review the recent progress achieved in the field of nitride-based microresonators for UV nanophotonics.
The status of searches for physics beyond the Standard Model is reviewed, in the light of the data from the Large Hadron Collider runs at 7 and 8 TeV centre-of-mass energy.
Objective. The bedside detection of potential awareness in patients with disorders of consciousness (DOC) currently relies only on behavioral observations and tests; however, the misdiagnosis rates in this patient group are historically relatively high. In this study, we proposed a visual hybrid brain-computer interface (BCI) combining P300 and steady-state evoked potential (SSVEP) responses to detect awareness in severely brain injured patients. Approach. Four healthy subjects, seven DOC patients who were in a vegetative state (VS, n = 4) or minimally conscious state (MCS, n = 3), and one locked-in syndrome (LIS) patient attempted a command-following experiment. In each experimental trial, two photos were presented to each patient; one was the patientʼs own photo, and the other photo was unfamiliar. The patients were instructed to focus on their own or the unfamiliar photos. The BCI system determined which photo the patient focused on with both P300 and SSVEP detections. Main results. Four healthy subjects, one of the 4 VS, one of the 3 MCS, and the LIS patient were able to selectively attend to their own or the unfamiliar photos (classification accuracy, 66-100%). Two additional patients (one VS and one MCS) failed to attend the unfamiliar photo (50-52%) but achieved significant accuracies for their own photo (64-68%). All other patients failed to show any significant response to commands (46-55%). Significance. Through the hybrid BCI system, command following was detected in four healthy subjects, two of 7 DOC patients, and one LIS patient. We suggest that the hybrid BCI system could be used as a supportive bedside tool to detect awareness in patients with DOC.
We show that in a layered metal, the angle dependent, finite frequency, interlayer magnetoresistance is altered due to the presence of a non-zero Berry curvature at the Fermi surface. At zero frequency, we find a conservation law which demands that the 'magic angle' condition for interlayer magnetoresistance extrema as a function of magnetic field tilt angle is essentially both field and Berry curvature independent. In the finite frequency case, however, we find that surprisingly large signatures of a finite Berry curvature occur in the periodic orbit resonances. We outline a method whereby the presence and magnitude of the Berry curvature at the Fermi surface can be extracted.
Single-spatial dimension intrinsic identities involving a particle's ownacceleration and observer-perceived acceleration, permit 'spatial momentum'-a parameter defined as m dx/dτ -and its spatio-temporal complement m dt/dτ -relabelled 'temporal momentum' in place of the misnomer 'relativistic mass'-to reflect force's traditional link between classical momentum and kinetic energy. Energy conservation confirms the relativistic force parallel and leads directly to the mass-energy formula.
This is a contribution to the growing international discussion on the redefinition of SI units that is based on the proposal to define the mass of a particle in an absolute manner, requiring no choice of any mass standard, as the magnitude of the particle's de Broglie angular frequency when it is free and viewed from its rest frame-a quantity which can readily be shown to possess the physical property of inertia. Such a definition implies that all the dynamical equations of classical or quantum physics can be written in terms of just two fundamental units, those of time and of length.
The linear stability of equilibria of charged particles moving near a compact object with a dipole magnetic field and a pseudo-Newtonian potential is analyzed detailedly. An optimal fourth-order force gradient symplectic method, as a global symplectic integrator that can simultaneously solve both the equations of motion and the variational equations, is used to calculate fast Lyapunov indicators. In this way, dynamical structures are described, and parameter domains for causing chaos are found.
The theory of a spinor field interacting with a pure Chern-Simons gauge field in 2+1 dimensions is quantized. Dynamical and nondynamical variables are separated in a gaugeindependent way. Alter the nondynamical variables are dropped, this theory reduces to a pure spinor Held theory with nonlocal interaction. Several two-body scattering processes are studied and the cross sections are obtained in explicitly Lorentz-invariant forms.
In this paper, a novel substrate termination technology (STT) for lateral double-diffused MOSFET (LDMOS) based on curved junction extension is proposed and experimentally demonstrated. A low-doped P-substrate, which is inserted in the curved region of the LDMOS, adjusts the high-doped abrupt P-body/N-drift junction with small curvature radius to low-doped P-sub/N-drift junction with large curvature radius, thus reducing peak electric field and avoiding premature avalanche breakdown at the curved abrupt P-body/N-drift junction. The proposed STT has been applied to a super junction (SJ) LDMOS. The experimental results show that the SJ LDMOS with the proposed STT exhibits off-state breakdown voltage (BV) of 800 V, which is the highest BV for the reported SJ LDMOS by far.
HITRAP is a facility at GSI in Darmstadt for decelerating, cooling and storing heavy, highly charged ions. It is designed to decelerate a beam of A/q < 3 particles with an energy of 4 MeV per nucleon as provided by the heavy ion storage ring ESR. HITRAP's decelerating linear accelerator (linac) will decelerate ions down to 6 keV per nucleon and then inject them into a Penning trap for cooling. The trap will capture bunches of up to 10 5 ions as heavy as U 92+ in flight, cool and store them. After extraction from the cooler trap, the vertical beam line (VBL) transports the cold ions to the experiments. The linac has shown to decelerate ions down to 500 keV per nucleon on-line and to 6 keV per nucleon off-line. Recent tests with electrons and ions injected into the trap showed the necessity of a more careful electric and magnetic field alignment. An installed test ion source as well as a system of apertures and position sensitive diagnostics will be used to align the fields. A highly charged ion beam from a small room temperature electron beam ion trap was used for commissioning the VBL.
The spectral shift response of optical whispering-gallery modes due to the adsorption and desorption of water molecules into a SiO 2 nano-coating is investigated. This coating is applied to a silica microsphere and optical-shift measurements are made at a very low humidity level (<10%). The micro-optical coupling system is incorporated into a sealed vacuum chamber for controlled humidity testing. The experimental observation of the whispering-gallery-mode spectral shift with refractive index is consistent with a theoretical analysis using Mie theory. A significant hysteresis effect is observed in the spectral shift of individual whispering-gallery modes during variable humidity tests. To understand the hysteresis mechanism, tests with step changes in humidity are performed, which reveal complex and dynamic water molecule transport phenomena between the nano-coating and surrounding environment.
We study the self-gravitating stars with a linear equation of state, P = aρ, in AdS space, where a is a constant parameter. There exists a critical dimension, beyond which the stars are always stable with any central energy density; below which there exists a maximal mass configuration for a certain central energy density and when the central energy density continues to increase, the configuration becomes unstable. We find that the critical dimension depends on the parameter a, it runs from d = 11.1429 to 10.1291 as a varies from a = 0 to 1. The lowest integer dimension for a dynamically stable self-gravitating configuration should be d = 12 for any a ∈ [0, 1] rather than d = 11, the latter is the case of self-gravitating radiation configurations in AdS space.
We have obtained near-infrared spectra covering the Ca II triplet lines for a large number of stars associated with 16 Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC) clusters using the VLT + FORS2. These data compose the largest available sample of SMC clusters with spectroscopically derived abundances and velocities. Our clusters span a wide range of ages and provide good areal coverage of the galaxy. Cluster members are selected using a combination of their positions relative to the cluster center as well as their location in the color-magnitude diagram, abundances, and radial velocities (RVs). We determine mean cluster velocities to typically 2.7 km s -1 and metallicities to 0.05 dex (random errors), from an average of 6.4 members per cluster. By combining our clusters with previously published results, we compile a sample of 25 clusters on a homogeneous metallicity scale and with relatively small metallicity errors, and thereby investigate the metallicity distribution, metallicity gradient, and age-metallicity relation (AMR) of the SMC cluster system. For all 25 clusters in our expanded sample, the mean metallicity [Fe/H] = -0.96 with σ = 0.19. The metallicity distribution may possibly be bimodal, with peaks at ∼-0.9 dex and -1.15 dex. Similar to the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC), the SMC cluster system gives no indication of a radial metallicity gradient. However, intermediate age SMC clusters are both significantly more metal-poor and have a larger metallicity spread than their LMC counterparts. Our AMR shows evidence for three phases: a very early (> 11 Gyr) phase in which the metallicity reached ∼-1.2 dex, a long intermediate phase from ∼10 to 3 Gyr in which the metallicity only slightly increased, and a final phase from 3 to 1 Gyr ago in which the rate of enrichment was substantially faster. We find good overall agreement with the model of Pagel & Tautvaišiene, which assumes a burst of star formation at 4 Gyr. Finally, we find that the mean RV of the cluster system is 148 km s -1 , with a velocity dispersion of 23.6 km s -1 and no obvious signs of rotation amongst the clusters. Our result is similar to what has been found from a wide variety of kinematic tracers in the SMC, and shows that the SMC is best represented as a pressure supported system.
The flavor changing charged currents of the weak sector of the Standard Model are studied in the framework of a quantum statistical approach. The quantum superposition of same-type quarks, generated by the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix, is used to define three density matrices, one for each quark family. The properties of such density matrices are analyzed, in particular, the associated von Neumann entropy. It is proven that, due to the unitarity of the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix, the quantum mixtures of quarks resulting from the weak interaction do not increase entropy and, therefore, the violation of CP and T symmetries cannot be related to the second law of thermodynamics.
This paper presents the design and microfabrication of a coaxial dual model filter for applications in LMDS systems. The coaxial structure is formed by five conductive layers, each of which is of 700 µm thickness. The filter uses an air filled coaxial transmission line. It is compact with low dispersion and low loss. The design has been extensively tested using a prototype filter micromachined using laser drilling on a copper sheet and the results show a good agreement with the theoretical calculations. The laser fabrication has exposed weakness in suitability to volume production, uneven edges and oxide residuals on the edges, which affects the filter performance. A process for fabrication of such a filter in SU-8 has been developed which is based on a UV lithographical process. In order to fabricate such thick SU-8 layers, the SU-8 process has been optimized in terms of UV radiation and post exposure baking. During the test fabrication, the optimized SU-8 process has produced microstructures with an aspect ratio of 40:1 and a sidewall of 90 ± 0.1 • . The high quality SU-8 structures can be then either coated with a conductive metal or used as moulds for producing copper structures using an electroforming process. The microfabrication process presented in this paper suits the proposed filter well. It also reveals a good potential for volume production of high quality RF devices.
P-shell A = 7 hypernuclei are considered in the cluster 5 He+N+N model. The folding procedure using the OBE simulating (NSC97f) model for N potential and various α potentials are applied to construct the 5 He-N interaction. Configuration space Faddeev calculations are performed for the hyperon binding energy of the 7 He 1 2 + and 7 Li 1 2 + and 3 2 + , T = 0 hypernuclei. The new predicted value for B ( 7 He) is 5.35 MeV. This value was obtained with the 6 He(2 -) excitation energy equal to 0.26 MeV. Since the 2 -state of 6 He has not yet been observed, the 6 He(2 -) excitation energy was chosen to reproduce the experimental value of the 7 Li 3 2 + excitation energy by the adjustment of the 5 He-N effective potential. Our results are compared with those of Hiyama et al (1996 Phys. Rev.  
An alternative scheme is presented to realize an 𝑁 -qubit 𝑊 state with distant atoms trapped in spatially separated optical cavities coupled by optical fibers via a fractional adiabatic passage. The present scheme is tolerant to device parameter nonuniformity and does not need to accurately control the experimental time by employing the fractional stimulated Raman adiabatic passage. In addition, the excited states of atoms are adiabatically eliminated and no additional qubit is required. Cavity decay, fiber losses and atomic spontaneous emission can all be greatly suppressed in the present scheme.
In the hole-doped, high-temperature superconducting cuprates, an intrinsic heterogeneity is found, from the early observations to recent data. Below optimum doping, the heterogeneity consists of dynamic metallic and, at low temperatures, superconducting regions in the form of clusters or stripes, which develop and decay as a function of time and location in the antiferromagnetic lattice. This behaviour is underlined by the interesting linear relation between the oxygen isotope shifts of the magnetic penetration depth and the critical temperature with a slope that is a factor 2 larger than expected for the homogeneous distribution of superfluid density. Allusion is also made to the Bose-Einstein condensation reported in structurally heterogeneous, polycrystalline polymer platelets as well as especially to the heterogeneous distribution of visible and dark matter in the Universe, which point to a change of paradigm in modern physics. perspective
We analyse further inverse problems related to synthetic aperture radar imaging considered by Nolan and Cheney (2002 Inverse Problems 18 221). Under a nonzero curvature assumption, it is proved that the forward operator F is associated with a two-sided fold, C. To reconstruct the singularities in the wave speed, we form the normal operator F * F . In Felea (2005 Comm. Partial Diff. Eqns 30 1717) and Nolan (2000 SIAM J. Appl. Math. 61 659), it was shown that F * F ∈ I 2m,0 ( , C 1 ), where C 1 is another two-sided fold. In this case, the artefact on C 1 has the same strength as the initial singularities on and cannot be removed. By working away from the fold points, we construct recursively operators Q i which, when applied to F * F , migrate the primary artefact. One part is lower order, has less strength and is smoother than the image to be reconstructed. The other part is as strong as the original artefact, but is spatially separated from the scene.
The potential energy surfaces of even-even 142-156 Ba are investigated in the constrained reflectionasymmetric relativistic mean-field approach with parameter set PK1. It is shown that for the ground states, 142 Ba is near spherical, 156 Ba well quadrupole-deformed, and in between 144-154 Ba octupole deformed. In particular, the nuclei 148,150 Ba with N =92, 94 have the largest octupole deformations. By including the octupole degree of freedom, energy gaps N = 88, N = 94 and Z = 56 near Fermi surfaces for the singleparticle levels in 148 Ba with β2 ∼ 0.26 and β3 ∼ 0.17 are found. Furthermore, the performance of the octupole deformation driving pairs (ν2f 7/2 , ν1i 13/2 ) and (π2d 5/2 , π1h 11/2 ) is demonstrated by analyzing the singleparticle levels near Fermi surfaces in 148 Ba.
The influence of dopants in ZnO films on defects is investigated by slow positron annihilation technique. The results show S that parameters meet S Al > Sun > SAg for Al-doped ZnO films, undoped and Ag-doped ZnO films. Zinc vacancies are found in all ZnO films with different dopants. According to S parameter and the same defect type, it can be induced that the zinc vacancy concentration is the highest in the Al-doped ZnO film, and it is the least in the Ag-doped ZnO film. When Al atoms are doped in the ZnO films grown on silicon substrates, Zn vacancies increase as compared to the undoped and Ag-doped ZnO films. The dopant concentration could determine the position of Fermi level in materials, while defect formation energy of zinc vacancy strongly depends on the position of Fermi level, so its concentration varies with dopant element and dopant concentration.
Monitoring the orbits of stars around Sgr A * offers the possibility of detecting the precession of their orbital planes due to frame dragging, of measuring the spin and quadrupole moment of the black hole, and of testing the no-hair theorem. Here we investigate whether the deviations of stellar orbits from test-particle trajectories due to wind mass loss and tidal dissipation of the orbital energy compromise such measurements. We find that the effects of stellar winds are, in general, negligible. On the other hand, for the most eccentric orbits (e > 0.96) for which an optical interferometer, such as GRAVITY, will detect orbital plane precession due to frame dragging, the tidal dissipation of orbital energy occurs at timescales comparable to the timescale of precession due to the quadrupole moment of the black hole. As a result, this non-conservative effect is a potential source of systematic uncertainty in testing the no-hair theorem with stellar orbits.
Injectable chitosan-based hydrogels have been widely studied toward biomedical applications because of their potential performance in drug/cell delivery and tissue regeneration. In this study we introduce tetronic-grafted chitosan containing tyramine moieties which have been utilized for in situ enzyme-mediated hydrogel preparation. The hydrogel can be used to load nanoparticles (NPs) of biphasic calcium phosphate (BCP), mixture of hydroxyapatite (HAp) and tricalcium phosphate (TCP), forming injectable biocomposites. The grafted copolymers were well-characterized by 1 H NMR. BCP nanoparticles were prepared by precipitation method under ultrasonic irradiation and then characterized by using x-ray powder diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The suspension of the copolymer and BCP nanoparticles rapidly formed hydrogel biocomposite within a few seconds of the presence of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ). The compressive stress failure of the wet hydrogel was at 591 ± 20 KPa with the composite 10 wt% BCP loading. In vitro study using mesenchymal stem cells showed that the composites were biocompatible and cells are well-attached on the surfaces.
We report the likely identification of a substantial population of massive M ∼ 10 11 M galaxies at z ∼ 4 with suppressed star formation rates (SFRs), selected on rest-frame optical to near-IR colors from the FourStar Galaxy Evolution Survey (ZFOURGE). The observed spectral energy distributions show pronounced breaks, sampled by a set of near-IR medium-bandwidth filters, resulting in tightly constrained photometric redshifts. Fitting stellar population models suggests large Balmer/4000 Å breaks, relatively old stellar populations, large stellar masses, and low SFRs, with a median specific SFR of 2.9 ± 1.8 × 10 -11 yr -1 . Ultradeep Herschel/PACS 100 μm, 160 μm and Spitzer/MIPS 24 μm data reveal no dust-obscured SFR activity for 15/19(79%) galaxies. Two far-IR detected galaxies are obscured QSOs. Stacking the far-IR undetected galaxies yields no detection, consistent with the spectral energy distribution fit, indicating independently that the average specific SFR is at least 10× smaller than that of typical star-forming galaxies at z ∼ 4. Assuming all far-IR undetected galaxies are indeed quiescent, the volume density is 1.8 ± 0.7 × 10 -5 Mpc -3 to a limit of log 10 M/M 10.6, which is 10× and 80× lower than at z = 2 and z = 0.1. They comprise a remarkably high fraction (∼35%) of z ∼ 4 massive galaxies, suggesting that suppression of star formation was efficient even at very high redshift. Given the average stellar age of 0.8 Gyr and stellar mass of 0.8 × 10 11 M , the galaxies likely started forming stars before z = 5, with SFRs well in excess of 100 M yr -1 , far exceeding that of similarly abundant UV-bright galaxies at z 4. This suggests that most of the star formation in the progenitors of quiescent z ∼ 4 galaxies was obscured by dust.
Conformational properties of dipolar chains, and spatial and orientational intrachain correlations in zero and infinitely strong external fields are investigated theoretically. A striking similarity and essential distinctions between the chains and polymer molecules are revealed and discussed. The main attention is given to the chain flexibility. The coil-globule phase transition in dipolar chains is predicted.
Large reservoirs along rivers regulate downstream flows to generate hydropower but may also store water for irrigation and urban sectors. Reservoir management therefore becomes critical, particularly for transboundary basins, where coordination between riparian countries is needed. Reservoir management is even more important in semiarid regions where downstream water users may be totally reliant on upstream reservoir releases. If the water resources are shared between upstream and downstream countries, potentially opposite interests arise as is the case in the Syrdarya river in Central Asia. In this case study, remote sensing data (radar altimetry and optical imagery) are used to highlight the potential of satellite data to monitor water resources: water height, areal extent and storage variations. New results from 20 years of monitoring using satellites over the Syrdarya basin are presented. The accuracy of satellite data is 0.6 km 3 using a combination of MODIS data and satellite altimetry, and only 0.2 km 3 with Landsat images representing 2-4% of average annual reservoir volume variations in the reservoirs in the Syrdarya basin. With future missions such as Sentinel-3A (S3A), Sentinel-3B (S3B) and surface water and ocean topography (SWOT), significant improvement is expected. The SWOT mission's main payload (a radar interferometer in Ka band) will furthermore provide 2D maps of water height, reservoirs, lakes, rivers and floodplains, with a temporal resolution of 21 days. At the global scale, the SWOT mission will cover reservoirs with areal extents greater than 250 × 250 m with 20 cm accuracy.
This paper proposes an electromechanical co-design method of a structurally integrated antenna to simultaneously meet mechanical and electrical requirements. The method consists of three stages. The first stage involves finishing an initial design of the microstrip antenna without a facesheet or honeycomb, according to some predefined performances. Subsequently, the facesheet and honeycomb of the structurally integrated antenna are designed using an electromechanical co-design optimization. Based on the results from the first and second stages, a fine full-wave electromagnetic model is developed and the coarse design results are further optimized to meet the electrical performance. The co-design method is applied to the design of a 2.5 GHz structurally integrated antenna, and then the designed antenna is fabricated. Experiments from the mechanical and electrical performances are conducted, and the results confirm the effectiveness of the co-design method. This method shows great promise for the multidisciplinary design of a structurally integrated antenna.
Using data from the IMACS Cluster Building Survey and from nearby galaxy surveys, we examine the evolution of the rate of star formation in field galaxies from z = 0.60 to the present. Fitting the luminosity function to a standard Schechter form, we find a rapid evolution of M * B consistent with that found in other deep surveys; at the present epoch M *
In the hole-doped, high-temperature superconducting cuprates, an intrinsic heterogeneity is found, from the early observations to recent data. Below optimum doping, the heterogeneity consists of dynamic metallic and, at low temperatures, superconducting regions in the form of clusters or stripes, which develop and decay as a function of time and location in the antiferromagnetic lattice. This behaviour is underlined by the interesting linear relation between the oxygen isotope shifts of the magnetic penetration depth and the critical temperature with a slope that is a factor 2 larger than expected for the homogeneous distribution of superfluid density. Allusion is also made to the Bose-Einstein condensation reported in structurally heterogeneous, polycrystalline polymer platelets as well as especially to the heterogeneous distribution of visible and dark matter in the Universe, which point to a change of paradigm in modern physics. perspective
High-resolution current signal measurements of a self-pulsing transient spark discharge revealed oscillations in the pulse decay phase. These oscillations appear with decreasing frequency between 250 MHz and 50 MHz for a specific gas flow range. The frequencies are well within the range of the plasma ion frequency. Consequently, ion acoustic waves are discussed as a possible reason. Considering molecular argon ions as the dominant ion, densities are found to decrease from n Ar + 2 = 10 14 cm -3 to 4 • 10 12 cm -3 . Evaluation of the plasma ion frequency creates a new possibility to determine ion densities.
Note that the high-mass sample shows a stronger trend for the color gradient but a weaker trend for the color gradient, compared to the trends in the intermediate-mass sample.
The DC resistivity and the Seebeck coefficient have been measured as a function of temperature in the system Ca, -,La,Ti , -,Co,OS for the samples with
We present an application of absorption spectroscopy to directly measure temperature and concentration histories of water vapor within the expansion of a high explosive detonation. While the approach of absorption spectroscopy is well established, the combination of a fast, near-infrared array, broadband light source, and rigid gauge allow the first application of time-resolved absorption measurements in an explosive environment. The instrument is demonstrated using pentaerythritol tetranitrate with a sampling rate of 20 kHz for 20 ms following detonation. Absorption by water vapor is measured between 1335 and 1380 nm. Water temperatures are determined by fitting experimental transmission spectra to a simulated database. Water mole fractions are deduced following the temperature assignment. The sources of uncertainty and their impact on the results are discussed. These measurements will aid the development of chemical-specific reaction models and the predictive capability in technical fields including combustion and detonation science.
Molecular dynamics simulations are performed with the recently developed empirical interaction potential by Morelon et al. Thermodynamics properties of solid UO2 that have been assessed include melt point, density, enthalpy, heat capacity, lattice parameter variation with temperature, mean-square-displacement and diffusion coefficients of oxygen ion. The results are compared with the data in literature and it is suggested that the rigid ionic potential provides perfect results below the superionic range. The data showing thermodynamics properties will become unacceptable when the temperature is higher than 2500 K. Compared with the previous empirical potentials, the empirical potential developed by Morelon et al. improves the agreement of these data with the recommend ones.
Thin film transistors (TFTs) with a bottom-gate configuration were fabricated using a photolithography process with chemically bath deposited (CBD) cadmium sulfide (CdS) films as the active channel. Thermal annealing in hydrogen was used to improve electrical stability and performance of the resulting CdS TFTs. Hydrogen thermal treatments results in significant V T instability (V T shift) improvement while increasing the I on /I off ratio without degrading carrier mobility. It is demonstrated that after annealing V T shift and I on /I off improves from 10 V to 4.6 V and from 10 5 to 10 9 , respectively. Carrier mobility remains in the order of 14.5 cm 2 V s -1 . The reduced V T shift and performance is attributed to a reduction in oxygen species in the CdS after hydrogen annealing, as evaluated by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR).
𝐶𝑎 + ions are successfully confined, under the cooling of a red-detuned laser, in a home-built microscopic surface-electrode (MSE) trap. With all electrodes deposited on a low-rf-loss substrate, our 500-𝜇m-scale MSE trap is designed involving three potential wells and manufactured by the standard technique of the printed circuit board. Both linear and two-dimensional crystals of 40 𝐶𝑎 + are observed in the trap after preliminary micromotion compensation is carried out. The development of the MSE trap aims at large-scale trapped-ion quantum information processing.
We consider constraints on purely kinetic 𝑘-essence models from the latest observational data (including 182 gold SNIa data, the shift parameter, and the acoustic scale). We find the best-fit values of the parameters are Ω𝑚 = 0.37 ± 0.01 and 𝑘0 = 0.064 ± 0.013 at 68.3% confidence level. The phase transition from deceleration to acceleration is found to occur at redshift 𝑧𝑞=0 ∼ 0.48-0.52 in 68.3% confidence level limits. By applying modelcomparison statistics (F-test, AIC𝑐, and BIC), we find that the purely kinetic 𝑘-essence scenario is favored over the ΛCDM model by the combined data. These results are also confirmed by combined data 307 SNIa +𝑅 + 𝑙𝑎.
Various thermal correlations as well as the effect of intrinsic decoherence on the correlations are studied in a two-qubit Heisenberg 𝑋𝑌 𝑍 spin chain with the Dzyaloshinski-Moriya (DM) interaction along the 𝑧 direction, i.e. 𝐷𝑧. It is found that tunable parameter 𝐷𝑧 may play a constructive role on the concurrence 𝐶, classical correlation (CC) and quantum discord (QD) in thermal equilibrium while it plays a destructive role on the correlations in the intrinsic decoherence case. The entanglement and quantum discord exhibit collapse and revival under the phase decoherence. With a proper combination of the system parameters, the correlations can effectively be kept at high steady state values despite the intrinsic decoherence.
We propose a novel scheme for generating 𝑁 -qubit GHZ entangled state with a hybrid quantum system, which consists of 𝑁 nitrogen-vacancy centers, 𝑁 transmission line resonators, a current-biased Josephson junction superconducting qubit, and three kinds of interaction Hamiltonians. The proposal requires no adjustment of the qubit level spacings during the entire operation. Moreover, it is shown that the operation time is independent of the number of qubits. The present proposal is quite useful, and is a promising step to realize the large-sized quantum networks for quantum information processing and quantum computation.
The local hysteresis loop obtained by switching spectroscopy piezoresponse force microscopy (SS-PFM) is usually regarded as a typical signature of ferroelectric switching. However, such hysteresis loops were also observed in a broad variety of non-ferroelectric materials in the past few years, which casts doubts on the viewpoint that the local hysteresis loops in SS-PFM originate from ferroelectricity. Therefore, it is crucial to explore the mechanism of local hysteresis loops obtained in SS-PFM testing. Here we proposed that non-ferroelectric materials can also exhibit amplitude butterfly loops and phase hysteresis loops in SS-PFM testing, due to the Maxwell force as long as the material can show macroscopic D-E hysteresis loops under cyclic electric field loading, no matter what the inherent physical mechanism is. To verify our viewpoint, both the macroscopic D-E and microscopic SS-PFM testing are conducted on a soda-lime glass and a non-ferroelectric dielectric material Ba0.4Sr0.6TiO3. Results show that both materials can exhibit D-E hysteresis loops and SS-PFM phase hysteresis loops, which can well support our viewpoint.
Certain laboratory tests require a gas source with a stable pressure. Commercially available gas pressure regulators address the above requirement. However, the accuracy of these devices is often insufficient and what is more, the market offer of accurate gas pressure regulators is limited. Moreover, the commercially available gas pressure regulators often do not fit the user's budget. Therefore, an attempt was made to develop a device which would meet all the user's requirements. This paper includes the description and specifications of a manostat-an accurate gas pressure regulator-designed and developed by the authors of this paper. The test results of the gas pressure regulation, obtained by means of the manostat, are also presented. The above mentioned test results proved among other things that for absolute gas pressure regulation within the range of 1-7 bar, the accuracy of the regulation amounted to below ±0.001 bar in an 18 h test at a manostat output gas flow rate within the range of 0-0.45 STD dm 3 min -1 .
In the paper we discuss the role of the axial U (1)A symmetry in the chiral phase transition using the U (N f )R × U (N f )L linear sigma model with two massless quark flavors. It is expected that above a certain temperature the axial U (1)A symmetry will be restored. A string-like static solution, the η string can be formed and detected in the ultrarelativistic heavy-ion collision process.
The centrality dependence of transverse momentum spectra for identified hadrons at midrapidity in Au+Au collisions at √ sNN = 200GeV is systematically studied in a quark combination model. The pT spectra of π ± , K ± , p(p) and Λ( Λ) in different centrality bins and the nuclear modification factors (RCP) for these hadrons are calculated. The centrality dependence of the average collective transverse velocity β (r) for the hot and dense quark matter is obtained in Au+Au collisions, and it is applied to a relative smaller Cu+Cu collision system. The centrality dependence of pT spectra and the RCP for π 0 , K 0 s and Λ in Cu+Cu collisions at √ sNN = 200 GeV are well described. The results show that β (r) is only a function of the number of participants Npart and it is independent of the collision system.
This paper explores the use of plasma treatment as a pretreatment process to assist the application of antimicrobial process on cotton fabric with good functional effect. In this paper, antimicrobial finishing agent, Microfresh Liquid Formulation 9200-200 (MF), and a binder (polyurethane dispersion, Microban Liquid Formulation R10800-0, MB) will be used for treating the cotton fabric for improving the antimicrobial property and pre-treatment of cotton fabric by plasma under atmospheric pressure will be employed to improve loading of chemical agents. The chemical analysis of the treated cotton fabric will be conducted by Fourier transform Infrared Spectroscopy.
We have obtained metallicities of ∼360 red giant stars distributed in 15 Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC) fields from near-infrared spectra covering the Ca ii triplet lines using the VLT + FORS2. The errors of the derived [Fe/H] values range from 0.09 to 0.35 dex per star, with a mean of 0.17 dex. The metallicity distribution (MD) of the whole sample shows a mean value of [Fe/H] = -1.00 ± 0.02, with a dispersion of 0.32 ± 0.01, in agreement with global mean [Fe/H] values found in previous studies. We find no evidence of a metallicity gradient in the SMC. In fact, on analyzing the MD of each field, we derived mean values of [Fe/H] = -0.99 ± 0.08 and [Fe/H] = -1.02 ± 0.07 for fields located closer and farther than 4 • from the center of the galaxy, respectively. In addition, there is a clear tendency for the field stars to be more metal-poor than the corresponding cluster they surround, independent of their positions in the galaxy and of the clusters' age. We argue that this most likely stems from the field stars being somewhat older and therefore somewhat more metal-poor than most of our clusters.
We found 217 X-ray brightening events in Earth's magnetosphere. These events occur in the high-energy band (0.5-4 Å) of the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES) X-ray light curves, although GOES X-ray light curves are frequently used as indices of solar flare magnitudes. We found that (1) brightening events are absent in the low-energy band (1-8 Å), unlike those associated with solar flares; and (2) the peak fluxes, durations, and onset times of these events depend on the magnetic local time (MLT). The events were detected in 2006, 2010, and 2011 at around 19-10 MLT, that is, from night to morning. They typically lasted for 2-3 hr. Their peak fluxes are less than 3 × 10 -8 W m -2 in the 0.5-4 Å band and are maximized around 0-5 MLT. From these MLT dependencies, we constructed an MLT time profile of X-ray brightening events. Because 0.5-4 and 1-8 Å fluxes were observed and had the same order of magnitude when GOES 14 passed through Earth's shadow, we expected that X-ray brightening events in the 1-8 Å band are obscured by high-background X-ray fluxes coming from the Sun. We also found coincidence between X-ray brightening events and aurora substorms. In the majority of our events, the minimum geomagnetic field values (AL index) are below -400 nT. From these results and consideration of the GOES satellite orbit, we expect that these X-ray brightening events occur in the magnetosphere. We cannot, however, clarify the radiative process of the observed X-ray brightening events.
Most directly imaged giant exoplanets are fainter than brown dwarfs with similar spectra. To explain their relative underluminosity, unusually cloudy atmospheres have been proposed. However, with multiple parameters varying between any two objects, it remained difficult to observationally test this idea. We present a new method, sensitive time-resolved Hubble Space Telescope near-infrared spectroscopy, to study two rotating L/T transition brown dwarfs (2M2139 and SIMP0136). The observations provide spatially and spectrally resolved mapping of the cloud decks of the brown dwarfs. The data allow the study of cloud structure variations while other parameters are unchanged. We find that both brown dwarfs display variations of identical nature: J-and H-band brightness variations with minimal color and spectral changes. Our light curve models show that even the simplest surface brightness distributions require at least three elliptical spots. We show that for each source the spectral changes can be reproduced with a linear combination of only two different spectra, i.e., the entire surface is covered by two distinct types of regions. Modeling the color changes and spectral variations together reveal patchy cloud covers consisting of a spatially heterogeneous mix of low-brightness, low-temperature thick clouds and brighter, thin, and warm clouds. We show that the same thick cloud patches seen in our varying brown dwarf targets, if extended to the entire photosphere, predict near-infrared colors/magnitudes matching the range occupied by the directly imaged exoplanets that are cooler and less luminous than brown dwarfs with similar spectral types. This supports the models in which thick clouds are responsible for the near-infrared properties of these "underluminous" exoplanets.
Babinet's principle applied to systems with double refraction is shown to involve spatial interchanges between the ordinary and extraordinary patterns observed through two complementary screens. As in the case of metamaterials, the extraordinary beam does not follow the Snell-Descartes refraction law, the superposition principle has to be applied simultaneously at two points. Surprisingly, by contrast to the intuitive impression, in the presence of the screen with an opaque region, we observe that the emerging extraordinary photon pattern, which however has undergone a deviation, remains fixed when a natural birefringent crystal is rotated while the ordinary one rotates with the crystal. The twofold application of Babinet's principle implies intensity and polarization interchanges but also spatial and dynamic interchanges which should occur in birefringent metamaterials.
We investigate the spectra of the electric quadrupole 4 2 𝑆 1/2 →3 2 𝐷 5/2 transitions in a single 40 Ca + ion confined in a home-built linear trap. We probe the transitions with an ultra-narrow bandwidth laser at 729 nm. In a weak magnetic field, the quadrupole transition splits into ten components with the maximal line strength proportional to their squared Clebsch-Gordan factors. In a magnetic field of the order of Gauss, the observed equidistant sideband reflects the Zeeman substructure modulated by the quantized oscillation due to the secular motion in the trap. The temperature of the trapped ion can be determined by the envelope of the sideband spectrum. We also demonstrate the Rabi oscillation in a carrier transition after the ion has been Doppler cooled, which can be fitted by the model with the thermal state of motion.
We observe the Autler-Townes splitting effect in a Δ-type quantum three-level system, using the lowest three levels of a SQUID-type Al/AlOx/Al transmon qubit embedded in a three-dimensional copper microwave cavity. A control tone at different strengths is applied in resonance with the transition between the first and second excited states, while the spectra between each of them and the ground state are probed by another microwave tone. The experimental result shows the difference between the two spectra, and fits well with the Lindblad master equation model.
We report experimental realization of a quantum version of Maxwell's demon using solid state spins where the information acquiring and feedback operations by the demon are achieved through conditional quantum gates. A unique feature of this implementation is that the demon can start in a quantum superposition state or in an entangled state with an ancilla observer. Through quantum state tomography, we measure the entropy in the system, demon, and the ancilla, showing the influence of coherence and entanglement on the result. A quantum implementation of Maxwell's demon adds more controllability to this paradoxical thermal machine and may find applications in quantum thermodynamics involving microscopic systems.
Using the single-mode approximation, we study entanglement measures including two independent quantities; i.e., negativity and von Neumann entropy for a tripartite generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state in noninertial frames. Based on the calculated negativity, we study the whole entanglement measures named as the algebraic average 𝜋3-tangle and geometric average Π 3-tangle. We find that the difference between them is very small or disappears with the increase of the number of accelerated qubits. The entanglement properties are discussed from one accelerated observer and others remaining stationary to all three accelerated observers. The results show that there will always exist entanglement, even if acceleration 𝑟 arrives to infinity. The degree of entanglement for all 1-1 tangles are always equal to zero, but 1-2 tangles always decrease with the acceleration parameter 𝑟. We notice that the von Neumann entropy increases with the number of the accelerated observers and 𝑆 𝜅 I 𝜁 I (𝜅, 𝜁 ∈ (A, B, C)) first increases and then decreases with the acceleration parameter 𝑟. This implies that the subsystem 𝜌 𝜅 I 𝜁 I is first more disorder and then the disorder will be reduced as the acceleration parameter 𝑟 increases. Moreover, it is found that the von Neumann entropies 𝑆ABCI, 𝑆ABICI and 𝑆AIBICI always decrease with the controllable angle 𝜃, while the entropies of the bipartite subsystems 𝑆2-2 non (two accelerated qubits), 𝑆2-1 non (one accelerated qubit) and 𝑆2-0 non (without accelerated qubit) first increase with the angle 𝜃 and then decrease with it.
Learning the Hamiltonian of a quantum system is indispensable for prediction of the system dynamics and realization of high fidelity quantum gates. However, it is a significant challenge to efficiently characterize the Hamiltonian which has a Hilbert space dimension exponentially growing with the system size. Here, we develop and implement an adaptive method to learn the effective Hamiltonian of an 11-qubit quantum system consisting of one electron spin and ten nuclear spins associated with a single nitrogen-vacancy center in a diamond. We validate the estimated Hamiltonian by designing universal quantum gates based on the learnt Hamiltonian and implementing these gates in the experiment. Our experimental result demonstrates a well-characterized 11-qubit quantum spin register with the ability to test quantum algorithms, and shows our Hamiltonian learning method as a useful tool for characterizing the Hamiltonian of the nodes in a quantum network with solid-state spin qubits.
We investigate the evolution of entanglement spectra under a global quantum quench from a short-range correlated state to the quantum critical point. Motivated by the conformal mapping, we find that the dynamical entanglement spectra demonstrate distinct finite-size scaling behaviors from the static case. As a prototypical example, we compute real-time dynamics of the entanglement spectra of a one-dimensional transverse-field Ising chain. Numerical simulation confirms that the entanglement spectra scale with the subsystem size 𝑙 as ∼𝑙 -1 for the dynamical equilibrium state, much faster than ∝ ln -1 𝑙 for the critical ground state. In particular, as a byproduct, the entanglement spectra at the long time limit faithfully gives universal tower structure of underlying Ising criticality, which shows the emergence of operator-state correspondence in the quantum dynamics.
The spin qubit in quantum dots is one of the leading platforms for quantum computation. A crucial requirement for scalable quantum information processing is the high efficient measurement. Here we analyze the measurement process of a quantum-dot spin qubit coupled to a superconducting transmission line resonator. Especially, the phase shift of the resonator is sensitive to the spin states and the gate operations. The response of the resonator can be used to measure the spin qubit efficiently, which can be extend to read out the multiple spin qubits in a scalable solid-state quantum processor.
A retarding field analyser has been used to examine ion and electron energies at the grounded electrode of a capacitively coupled RF discharge in argon. The onset of collisional scattering of the ion distribution was observed at 0.05 mbar. A Tonks-Langmuir-type model has been used to generate a theoretical collision-free energy distribution which compares well with results at low pressure. The energies of electrons incident on the electrode were not consistent with the high-energy tail of a simple Maxwellian distribution in the plasma, and are better modelled by a two-temperature distribution grids;
This work pioneers the atomistic modeling of the shock wave in background gas in picosecond laser-material interaction. It is found in the shock wave the compressed ambient gas region has a very uniform temperature distribution while the temperature decreases from the front of the plume to its end. The group velocity of atoms in the shock wave front is much smaller than the shock wave propagation speed and experiences a fast decay due to momentum exchange with the ambient gas. Strong decay of the shock wave front temperature and pressure is observed while its density features much slower attenuation. An effective mass penetration length is designed to quantitatively evaluate the mutual mass penetration between the plume and background gas. This effective mixing length grows at a rate of $60 m/s. This fast mixing/mass penetration is largely due to the strong relative movement between the plume and the background gas. The molecular dynamics results agree well with the analytical solution in terms of relating various shock wave strengths.
We review and re-examine the description and separation of the spin and orbital angular momenta (AM) of an electromagnetic field in free space. While the spin and orbital AM of light are not separately meaningful physical quantities in orthodox quantum mechanics or classical field theory, these quantities are routinely measured and used for applications in optics. A meaningful quantum description of the spin and orbital AM of light was recently provided by several authors, which describes separately conserved and measurable integral values of these quantities. However, the electromagnetic field theory still lacks corresponding locally conserved spin and orbital AM currents. In this paper, we construct these missing spin and orbital AM densities and fluxes that satisfy the proper continuity equations. We show that these are physically measurable and conserved quantities. These are, however, not Lorentz-covariant, so only make sense in the single laboratory reference frame of the measurement probe. The fluxes we derive improve the canonical (nonconserved) spin and orbital AM fluxes, and include a 'spin-orbit' term that describes the spin-orbit interaction effects observed in nonparaxial optical fields. We also consider both standard and dual-symmetric versions of the electromagnetic field theory. Applying the general theory to nonparaxial optical vortex beams validates our results and allows us to discriminate between earlier approaches to the problem. Our
In a classical spacetime satisfying Einstein's equation and the null convergence condition, the same quantum mechanical effects that cause black holes to have a temperature are found to imply, if joined to the macroscopic nature of entropy, the covariant entropy bound in its generalized form. This is obtained from thermodynamics, as applied across the local Rindler causal horizon through every point p of the null hypersurfaces L the covariant entropy bound refers to, in the direction of the null geodesics generating L.
We show that an exponential tail-state distribution model combined with the Meyer-Neldel rule can be used to describe the subthreshold characteristics of amorphous InGaZnO 4 thin-film transistors (a-IGZO TFTs). Incorporating temperature-dependent experimental data into the model, we estimate the density of tail states at the conduction-band mobility edge for a-IGZO to be approximately 1:3 Â 10 19 cm À3 eV À1 , which is one order of magnitude lower than that estimated for hydrogenated amorphous Si (a-Si:H).
This paper reviews some of the fundamental properties of highly charged ions, the methods of producing them (with particular emphasis on tabletop devices), and their use as a tool for both basic science and applied technology. Topics discussed include: charge dependence and scaling laws along isoelectronic or isonuclear sequences (for wavefunction size or Bohr radius, ionization energy, dipole transition energy, relativistic fine structure, hyperfine structure, Zeeman effect, Stark effect, line intensities, linewidths, strength of parity violation, etc), changes in angular momentum coupling schemes, selection rules, interactions with surfaces, electron-impact ionization, the electron beam ion trap (EBIT), ion accelerators, atomic reference data, cosmic chronometers, laboratory x-ray astrophysics, vacuum polarization, solar flares,
An enormous wave-particle diffusion coefficient along paths suitable for alpha channeling had been deduced in mode-converted ion Bernstein wave experiments on the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor (TFTR). The only plausible explanation advanced for such a large diffusion coefficient was the excitation of internal cavity modes which induce particle diffusion along identical diffusion paths, but at much higher rates. Although such a mode was conjectured, it was never observed. However, recent detailed observations of high frequency compressional Alfvén eigenmodes (CAEs) on the National Spherical Torus Experiment (NSTX) indirectly support the existence of the related conjectured modes on TFTR. The eigenmodes responsible for the high frequency magnetic activity can be identified as CAEs through the polarization of the observed magnetic field oscillations in NSTX and through a comparison with the theoretically derived frequency dispersion relation. Here, we show how these recent observations of high frequency CAEs lend support to this explanation of the long-standing puzzle of anomalous fast ion energy diffusion on TFTR. The support of the conjecture that these internal modes could have caused the remarkable ion energy diffusion on TFTR carries significant and favorable implications for the possibilities in achieving the alpha channeling effect with small injected power in a tokamak reactor.
Oxygenation kinetics of YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7-δ superconductor with silver (0%, 10% and 30% Ag by weight) have been studied by using thermogravimetric analysis at annealing temperatures ranging from 350 • C to 850 • C in air. The results show that both the silver addition and annealing temperature greatly influence the oxygenation processes of the YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7-δ superconductor. The amounts of the oxygen loaded into Y123-Ag compounds increase with decreasing temperature. The silver additions also increase the saturation oxygen contents, increase the maximum oxygenation rates and slow down the accelerations and deceleration of the oxygenation rates. It is believed that there are two types of diffusion that affect the oxygenation kinetics: oxygen transfer through grain boundaries and pores and oxygen diffusion through Y123 lattice. Added silver changed the microstructures of Y123 specimens by segregating itself onto the grain boundary areas and therefore affecting the oxygen transfer processes and oxygenation kinetics.
We show that freely suspended liquid-crystal film have suitable properties for use as visible and infrared radiation sensors. The replacement of the polymer film in a Golay cell by a liquid-crystalline film results in the effective increase of the sensor response rate (100 times) without undue sacrifice of its sensitivity.
Electronic states for two possible high-pressure phases (with the ThSi 2 structure and with the AlB 2 structure) of CaSi 2 are determined by means of a local density approximation band-structure calculation. We confirm that these polymorphs can be regarded as doped sp 2 networks of Si. However, a simple picture in terms of π-orbitals is not adequate for explaining the conduction bands, because (i) an s-like band, which is anti-bonding in sp 2 connections but bonding between segments of the network, appears and (ii) there is π -d hybridization between Si and Ca.
Scientific and technical activities on JET focus on the issues likely to affect the ITER design and operation. Our understanding of the ITER reference mode of operation, the ELMy H-mode, has progressed significantly. The extrapolation of ELM size to ITER has been re-evaluated. Neoclassical tearing modes have been shown to be meta-stable in JET, and their beta limits can be raised by destabilization (modification) of sawteeth by ion cyclotron radio frequency heating (ICRH). Alpha simulation experiments with ICRH accelerated injected 4 He beam ions provide a new tool for fast particle and magnetohydrodynamic studies, with up to 80-90% of plasma heating by fast 4 He ions. With or without impurity seeding, a quasi-steady-state high confinement (H 98 = 1), high density (n e /n GW = 0.9-1) and high β (β N = 2) ELMy H-mode has been achieved by operating near the ITER triangularity (δ ∼ 0.40-0.5) and safety factor (q 95 ∼ 3), at Z eff ∼ 1.5-2. In advanced tokamak (AT) scenarios, internal transport barriers (ITBs) are now characterized in real time with a new criterion, ρ * T . Tailoring of the current profile with lower hybrid current drive provides reliable access to a variety of q profiles, lowering access power for barrier formation. Rational q surfaces appear to be associated with ITB formation. Alfvén cascades were observed in reversed shear plasmas, providing identification of q profile evolution. Plasmas with 'current holes' were observed and modelled. Transient high confinement AT regimes with H 89 = 3.3, β N = 2.4 and ITER-relevant q < 5 were achieved with reversed magnetic shear. Quasi-stationary ITBs are developed with full non-inductive current drive, including ∼ 50% bootstrap current. A record duration of ITBs was achieved, up to 11 s, approaching the resistive time. For the first time, pressure and current profiles of AT regimes are controlled by a real-time feedback system, in separate experiments. Erosion and co-deposition studies with a quartz micro-balance show reduced co-deposition. Measured divertor thermal loads during disruptions in JET could modify ITER assumptions.
The non-centrosymmetric ClO4 anions of the organic superconductor (TMTSF)2ClO4 order below 24 K. The size of domains where the anions are ordered is substantially dependent on the cooling rate which is a key parameter for the stability of the low-temperature electronic ground states. We study the effect of the cooling rate on the SC phase within a self-consistent approach in the framework of the time-dependent Ginzburg-Landau theory taking into account the superconducting fluctuations. We derive the superconducting transition temperature which is found to decrease with increasing cooling rate in agreement with recent experimental data.
A study has been made of the use of acoustic emission techniques to monitor failure processes within carbon-fibre-reinforced plastics and to establish some of the limitations of the technique. The type of signal to be expected from a resonant transducer of the type most widely used is discussed, and simulation studies confirm this analysis. Bundles of different types of fibres have been broken in order to investigate the type of emission obtained when fibres fracture. Sources of extraneous emission arising from the grips and from shear damage at notch tips have also been studied. Acoustic emission detection is shown to be a fruitful source of information about deformation processes in this kind of material provided due consideration is given to its limitations.
The ESR spectra of Cr 3+ impurity in PbTiO 3 single crystals are studied in the 4.2-300 K temperature range. It is shown that Cr 3+ substitutes for Ti 4+ with a charge compensation in distant spheres. The axial-symmetry crystal-field parameter b 0 2 is negative and exhibits unusual (for a deep tetragonal phase) temperature behaviour: |b 0 2 | increases linearly as the temperature is reduced to T 0 = 170-180 K and then for T < T 0 its value strongly decreases. It is shown that the reason for this decreasing is the displacement of Cr 3+ from the central position in the oxygen cage which is occupied by Cr 3+ for T > T 0 . A possible connection of this phenomenon with a small lattice distortion at T = 170-180 K, which was observed earlier, is discussed.
We present a scheme for symmetric multiparty quantum state sharing of an arbitrary m-qubit state with m Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states following some ideas from the controlled teleportation (2005 Phys. Rev. A 72 02338). The sender Alice performs m Bell-state measurements on her 2m particles and the controllers need only take some single-photon product measurements on their photons independently, not multipartite entanglement measurements, which makes this scheme more convenient than the latter. Also it does not require the parties to perform a controlled-NOT gate on the photons for reconstructing the unknown m-qubit state and it is an optimal one as its efficiency for qubits approaches 100% in principle.
We propose a new quantum protocol to teleport an arbitrary unknown Nqubit entangled state from a sender to a fixed receiver under the control of M (M < N) controllers. In comparison with other existing protocols, ours is more economical and more feasible. The quantum resource required is just M Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger trios plus (N -M) Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs. The techniques required are only N Bell measurements by the sender, a von Neumann measurement by a controller and N single-qubit transformations by the receiver. The rule for the receiver to reconstruct the desired state is derived explicitly in the most general case.
We study the fluctuation modes for lump solutions of the tachyon effective potential in p-adic open string theory. We find a discrete spectrum with equally spaced mass squared levels. We also find that the interactions derived from this field theory are consistent with p-adic string amplitudes for excited string states.
The threshold fields of laser-induced breakdown in dielectric liquids (dimethyl silicone oil and linear hydrocarbon liquids) were experimentally studied as the functions of molecular weight and temperature, and compared with the threshold fields of DC impulse breakdown. The threshold fields of laser-induced breakdown decrease with increasing molecular weight and with decreasing temperature. On the other hand, the threshold fields of DC impulse breakdown slightly increase with increasing molecular weight, and with decreasing temperature. From these results, laser-induced breakdown in dielectric liquids is also explained in terms of microwave breakdown theory as in the solids and gases.
The Ising model with a pulsed transverse and a continuous longitudinal field is studied. Starting from a large transverse field and a state that is nearly an eigenstate, the pulsed transverse field is quenched with a simultaneous enhancement of the longitudinal field. The generation of multipartite entanglement is observed along with a phenomenon akin to quantum resonance when the entanglement does not evolve for certain values of the pulse period. Away from the resonance, the longitudinal field can drive the entanglement to near maximum values that is shown to agree well with those of random states. Further evidence is presented that the time-evolved states obtained do have some statistical properties of such random states. For contrast the case when the fields have a steady value is also discussed.
We investigated the stability of organic field-effect transistors (FETs) under ambient conditions. By employing organic/ metallic hybrid passivation layers, we improved the electric stability of organic FETs in air. Pentacene FETs were fabricated on plastic films and encapsulated in organic/metallic hybrid passivation layers. These FETs exhibited a high mobility of 0.6 cm 2 V À1 s À1 and an on/off ratio greater than 10 6 . When the devices were stored in air for two months, the change in mobility was less than 2%. When continuous source-drain and gate voltages of À40 V were applied to the FETs for 10 days in air, the change in saturation current was less than 5%. We performed bending and heating tests in air. The FETs retained their functionality after being bent with a bending radius of less than 1 mm, and exhibited no changes in the performance after being subjected to a number of heat cycles up to 160 C. The organic/metallic hybrid passivation layer is also effective in reducing air degradation of n-type organic FETs.
We analyse a scheme for phase-sensitive amplification of an optical image without using Fourier-transforming lenses, as carried out in a recent experiment. Our analysis shows that the scheme works well with a broadband amplifier, which ensures that the output image is a faithful copy of the object. In addition, when the area of the pixel detector is close to the minimum imaging resolution, both a large output signal-to-noise ratio and noiseless amplification can be realized.
If an electron swarm is subjected to a uniform steady electric field thereby drifting through a gas of moderate density, its intensity increases due to an avalanche effect in the direction of the field. The rise in the number of electrons and positive ions was first ascribed to ionising electron-neutral particle collisions. However, since electrons also excite neutral particles to higher energy states of long lifetimes, a significant population of excited particles is now formed so that low-energy electrons can ionise them 'in stages'.
The gamma-ray blazar 1611+343 was observed with polarization VLBI mode at 5 GHz in February 1999. The total intensity (I) VLBI image of the source shows a core-jet structure. The jet bends eastward at ∼ 3 mas south of the core. Four components have been detected from results of fitting, with apparent speeds estimated at 6.7 ± 0.7, 2.5 ± 0.3, 4.5 ± 0.5 h -1 c for three jet components (taking H 0 = 100 h km s -1 Mpc -1 , q 0 = 0.5). The polarization (P ) VLBI image of 1611+343 displays the polarized configuration in the jet. The mechanism of the curved jet is discussed.
The experimental X-ray K-emission and absorption spectra of Na,VO, , the L-emission spectrum of YVO,, and the XPS and APS spectra of YVO, are compared with the energy diagram of molecular orbitals obtained by a cluster-model calculation for the orthovanadate ion VO:-.
We should add the reference [1] in our paper 
We examine electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), the optical preparation of persistent nuclear spin coherences and the retrieval of light pulses both in a -type and a V-type coupling scheme in a Pr 3+ :Y 2 SiO 5 crystal, cooled to cryogenic temperatures. The medium is prepared by optical pumping and spectral hole burning, creating a spectrally isolated -type and a V-type system within the inhomogeneous bandwidth of the 3 H 4 ↔ 1 D 2 transition of the Pr 3+ ions. By EIT, in the -type scheme we drive a nuclear spin coherence between the ground-state hyperfine levels, while in the V-type scheme we drive a coherence between the excited-state hyperfine levels. We observe the cancellation of absorption due to EIT and the retrieval of light pulses in both level schemes. This also permits the determination of dephasing times of the nuclear spin coherence, either in the ground state or the optically excited state.
The acoustic nonlinearity parameter B/A of a liquid containing microbubbles, sonicated dextrose albumin, has been measured by using second harmonic insert-substitution method. Results show that the value of nonlinearity parameter B/A for a bubbly liquid is significant and it obviously increases with increase of bubble number density. The high nonlinearity of the bubbly liquid is mainly dependent on the microbubble nonlinear oscillation.
We investigate the influence of dissipation on the entanglement among N identical two-level atoms. We analyse the situation of N two-level atoms in a dispersive cavity or in N dispersive cavities, both in W -like and in GHZ states for N atoms. By considering the Jaynes-Cummings model in the dispersive regime, and a master equation formalism, we compute the time evolution of the entanglement of the atoms, in a variety of situations. We find that, depending on whether the atoms are located in one or N cavities, and on their initial entangled state, the subsequent dynamics will be very different, specifically, exponential decay to coherent oscillations, exponential decay to steady values, or collapse and revival.
A 6-dimensional grand unified theory with the compact space having the topology of a real projective plane, i.e., a 2-sphere with opposite points identified, is considered. The space is locally flat except for two conical singularities where the curvature is concentrated. One supersymmetry is preserved in the effective 4d theory. The unified gauge symmetry, for example SU(5) , is broken only by the non-trivial global topology. In contrast to the Hosotani mechanism, no adjoint Wilson-line modulus associated with this breaking appears. Since, locally, SU(5) remains a good symmetry everywhere, no UV-sensitive threshold corrections arise and SU(5)-violating local operators are forbidden. Doublettriplet splitting can be addressed in the context of a 6d N = 2 super Yang-Mills theory with gauge group SU(6). If this symmetry is first broken to SU(5) at a fixed point and then further reduced to the standard model group in the above non-local way, the two light Higgs doublets of the MSSM are predicted by the group-theoretical and geometrical structure of the model.
A 6-dimensional grand unified theory with the compact space having the topology of a real projective plane, i.e., a 2-sphere with opposite points identified, is considered. The space is locally flat except for two conical singularities where the curvature is concentrated. One supersymmetry is preserved in the effective 4d theory. The unified gauge symmetry, for example SU(5) , is broken only by the non-trivial global topology. In contrast to the Hosotani mechanism, no adjoint Wilson-line modulus associated with this breaking appears. Since, locally, SU(5) remains a good symmetry everywhere, no UV-sensitive threshold corrections arise and SU(5)-violating local operators are forbidden. Doublettriplet splitting can be addressed in the context of a 6d N = 2 super Yang-Mills theory with gauge group SU(6). If this symmetry is first broken to SU(5) at a fixed point and then further reduced to the standard model group in the above non-local way, the two light Higgs doublets of the MSSM are predicted by the group-theoretical and geometrical structure of the model.
In this paper, we describe the mechanical interaction between the vibrating tip of an atomic force microscope (AFM) and carbon nanotubes (CNTs) suspended over a trench on a Si wafer. The interaction was detected by recording the oscillation amplitudes of the cantilever tip above the suspended CNTs during both tip-down and tip-up processes. We refer to the oscillation amplitude versus tip vertical position as a force curve. In the force curve obtained in air, the mechanical response of a CNT bundle under a periodic external force applied by the tip is interpreted as a simple model that includes the attachment/ detachment of the CNTs onto the tip surface and the oscillation of the CNTs fixed to the tip. The curve obtained in water has features similar to that obtained in air. The difference between the force curves obtained in air and in water suggests that the adhesion force between the AFM tip and CNTs is weaked in water than in air. [
We investigate the entanglement of a three-qubit anisotropic Heisenberg XXZ ring with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction in thermal equilibrium at temperature T in the presence of an external magnetic field B along the z-axis and obtain analytic expression for the concurrence, in which the dependence of the concurrence on the anisotropic coupling coefficient J z , external magnetic field B, the DM interaction parameter D and temperature T is described. The DM interaction is found to have a more significant role than the others in increasing the critical temperature or the entanglement area. We also calculate the ground-state entanglement under various control parameters and give expressions for the quantum critical points at which quantum phase transition (QPT) takes place. These results show that one is able to produce, when it does not exist, or increase (up to some limit), when it exists, the concurrence so that the efficient control of entanglement by appropriate combinations of the tunable parameters may be possible.
First-order 1s and 2p wavefunctions of a hydrogen-like atom, confined at the centre of a spherical 'box' with impenetrable walls, are derived and used to predict the large-box asymptotic forms of the 1s-2p oscillator strength and the ground-state static dipole polarizabilty. It is found that the deviations from the unconfined values behave as e -ZR in the case of the oscillator strength and as e -2ZR in the case of the dipole polarizability, where R is the box radius. For smaller boxes, Rayleigh-Schrödinger perturbation theory is employed to calculate dipole polarizabilities.
The entanglement dynamics between two central spins coupled to an XY spin chain at finite temperature with the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction (DM) is investigated. By studying the entanglement decay of the central spins, we find that the DM interaction does not affect the behaviour of quantum phase transition induced by the external magnetic field and does not induce new critical regions in the XY model. Moreover, the DM interaction can efficiently enhance or suppress the entanglement between the central spins which depend on the values of the DM interaction, the magnetic intensity λ and the temperature T of the environmental spin chain.
The magnetic phase diagram of multiferroic MnWO 4 is studied in magnetic fields up to 60 T using sound velocity and sound attenuation measurements. Anomalies are observed at temperatures T N1 = 7.6 K, T N2 = 12.6 K and T N3 = 13.6 K that separate commensurate antiferromagnetic (AF1) to helical AF2 and commensurate AF3 to paramagnetic phases, respectively. The anomalies are significantly different and shed light on the spin-phonon coupling and evolution of the various order parameters in this multiferroic material. For temperatures below T N2 pronounced field hysteresis effects are also observed in the sound velocity, indicating field-induced transformations. In the temperature dependence of the attenuation we observe anomalies distinctively different from the usual maxima related to relaxation effects. They are attributed to the combination of dispersion effects due to domain walls and the discontinuously changing sound velocity. In total, six different magnetic phases, at various temperatures and fields including a novel high-field phase, are revealed and analyzed.
The last decade has seen a rapid growth in the number of simulation methods and applications dealing with the sampling of transition pathways of rare nanoscale events. Such studies are crucial, for example, for understanding the mechanism and kinetics of conformational transitions and enzymatic events associated with the function of biomolecules. In this review, a broad account of transition path sampling approaches is provided, starting from the general concepts, progressing to the specific principles that underlie some of the most important methods, and eventually singling out the so-called forward flux sampling method for a more detailed description. This is done because forward flux sampling, despite its appealing simplicity and potential efficiency, has thus far received limited attention from practitioners. While path sampling methods have a widespread application to many types of rare transitional events, here only recent applications involving biomolecules are reviewed, including isomerization, protein folding, and enzyme catalysis.
In this paper we introduce a Hamiltonian model which represents the interaction between SU(1, 1) and SU(2) quantum systems. The Heisenberg equations of motion are invoked to derive the exact time-dependent dynamical operators. The phenomena of the collapse and revival are observed for the intermediate states, however, for a large value of the excitation number m. It is also shown that the phenomenon of squeezing is observed in the intermediate state. Moreover, it is sensitive to the variation in the coupling parameter λ, the detuning parameter , as well as in the Bargmann index k. The examination of the correlation function shows that the system displays anti-bunching for all periods of time except for a large value of the excitation number when k = 3/4. Our discussion for the variance squeezing also shows that the phenomenon of squeezing is pronounced in the quadrature variances for the odd parity case when the detuning parameter is large.
The Aharonov-Anandan and Barry phases are determined for the cyclic motions of a nonrelativistic charged spinless particle evolving in the superposition of the fields produced by a Penning trap and a rotating magnetic field. A discussion about the selection of the parameter's space and the relationship between the Berry phase and the symmetry of the binding potential is given.
We use two-unequal-frequency microwave photons as sensitive probes to study the nsns to the np(n + m -1)p Rydberg pair state transition in a cold 85 Rb gas, where n and m are integers. The principal quantum number n dependence of the energy differences between ns(n + 1)s and np 3/2 np 3/2 as well as ns(n + 2)s and np 1/2 (n + 1)p 1/2 has been measured and the results are consistent with the calculated values. Additionally, we demonstrate that the pair state Stark shift is the sum of the Stark shifts of both isolated Rydberg atoms. Finally, we tune the dipole-dipole mixing probability by applying an electric field to tune the energy difference between the dipole-dipole coupled states, ns(n + 2)s and np 1/2 (n + 1)p 1/2 . The results reported here are essential steps towards electric-field-controlled chemical reactions [1], quantum gates, molecular autoionization and few-body correlations.
I show how the AdS 2 D-branes in the Euclidean AdS 3 string theory are related to the continuous D-branes in Liouville theory. I then propose new discrete D-branes in the Euclidean AdS 3 which correspond to the discrete D-branes in Liouville theory. These new D-branes satisfy the appropriate shift equations. They give rise to two families of discrete D-branes in the 2d black hole, which preserve different symmetries.
Our concern is to design some deterministic schemes for remotely preparing an arbitrary W -class state from one sender to one of a number of receivers. Compared with previous remote preparation schemes, the real receiver in our schemes is unknown to the sender. Firstly, by introducing a novel entanglement transformation the sender can deterministically prepare an arbitrary W -class state with complex spectra to one of two remote receivers via two four-particle GHZ states as the quantum channel. As for preparing a W -class state with real spectra, by constructing a general and useful measurement basis for the sender, another economical protocol can be designed with unit success probability. These schemes are extended to multiparties via two multi-particle GHZ states as the quantum channel. The classical communication costs of all the schemes are calculated to determine the classical resources required.
We present a simple protocol and quantum circuit for efficient implementation of the N-bit discrete quantum Fourier transform by using two-qubit controlled-NOT gate and SWCZ gate that is a combination of -SWAP and controlled-Z gates in cavity quantum electrodynamics. In this protocol long-lived electronic states in circular Rydberg atoms are used as quantum bits and the one-bit and two-bit quantum gate operations required for implementing the discrete quantum Fourier transform in the quantum circuit can be easily achieved with atom-microwave resonant interaction and atom-cavity interaction occurring only between two nearest-neighbour atoms. We present the detailed experimental procedure and analyse the experimental feasibility.
The gamma-ray blazar 1611+343 was observed with polarization VLBI mode at 5 GHz in February 1999. The total intensity (I) VLBI image of the source shows a core-jet structure. The jet bends eastward at ∼ 3 mas south of the core. Four components have been detected from results of fitting, with apparent speeds estimated at 6.7 ± 0.7, 2.5 ± 0.3, 4.5 ± 0.5 h -1 c for three jet components (taking H 0 = 100 h km s -1 Mpc -1 , q 0 = 0.5). The polarization (P ) VLBI image of 1611+343 displays the polarized configuration in the jet. The mechanism of the curved jet is discussed.
Polycrystalline silicon (Si) wafers were directly grown on Si 3 N 4 substrate using a horizontal growth process and the their microstructures were observed. Si wafer with a dimension of 50 Â 80 mm 2 was successively achieved and typical growth velocity was 315-926 cm/min. From the investigations of process, microstructures were mainly determined by the substrate movement velocity, which was equal to the growth velocity. When the movement velocity increased, the wafer thickness and grain sizes decreased, but, the number of twins increased. When the movement velocity was 315.6 cm/min, wafer thickness was 312 m and mean grain size was 82 m. When the graphite substrate was used, there was severe carbon contamination and SiC was even formed near the rear side of wafer. Substitution of the substrate material with Si 3 N 4 instead of graphite reduced the amount of carbon from about 1 Â 10 20 to 5:87 Â 10 18 atoms/min.
Heat dissipation is one of the most important issues for the reliability of electronic equipment. Boiling can be a very efficient heat transfer mechanism when used to face with the electronic technology needs of efficient and compact heat sinks. Recently, cellular structured materials both stochastic and periodic, particularly open cell metal foams, have been proposed as possible enhanced surfaces to lower the junction temperatures at high heat fluxes. Up today, most of the research on metal foams only regards single phase flow, whereas the two phase flow is still almost unexplored. This paper presents an experimental study on the heat transfer of R134a during flow boiling inside a 5 PPI (Pores Per linear Inch) copper foam, which is 5 mm high, 10 mm wide and 200 mm long, and it is brazed on a 10 mm thick copper plate. The experimental measurements were carried out by imposing three different heat fluxes (50, 75, and 100 kW m -2 ) and by varying the refrigerant mass velocity between 50 and 200 kg m -2 s -1 and the vapour quality from 0.2 to 0.90, at constant saturation temperature (30°C). The effects of the refrigerant mass flow rate, heat flux and vapour quality on the heat transfer coefficient, dry out phenomenon, and pressure drop are studied.
In this paper, we adopt the Nernst-Planck equation and the full Navier-Stokes equation in the modeling of electro-osmotic flow in microfluidic chips. A voltage control model is proposed, which achieves electrokinetic focusing in a pre-focused cross injection system and which allows the volume of the sample to be controlled. In addition to the traditional cross system, we also present a design for a novel pre-focused 1 × 3 (i.e. one sample inlet port and three outlet ports) injection system, which is capable of continuous sample switching and injection for bio-analytical applications. Using the proposed injection system, the sample may be electrokinetically pre-focused and then guided into the required outlet port by suitable manipulations of the applied voltage. The unique microfluidic chip presented within this paper has an exciting potential for use in high-throughput chemical analysis, fast sample mixing and many other applications in the field of micro-total-analysis systems.
We investigate an optical quantum memory scheme with V-type three-level atoms based on the controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening technique. We theoretically show the possibility of storing and retrieving a weak light pulse interacting with the two optical transitions of the system. This scheme implements a quantum memory for a polarization qubit-a single photon in an arbitrary polarization state-without the need of two spatially separated two-level media, thus offering the advantage of experimental compactness overcoming the limitations due to mismatching and unequal efficiencies that can arise in spatially separated memories. The effects of a relative phase change between the atomic levels, as well as of phase noise due to, for example, the presence of spurious electric and magnetic fields are analysed.
The Ising model with a pulsed transverse and a continuous longitudinal field is studied. Starting from a large transverse field and a state that is nearly an eigenstate, the pulsed transverse field is quenched with a simultaneous enhancement of the longitudinal field. The generation of multipartite entanglement is observed along with a phenomenon akin to quantum resonance when the entanglement does not evolve for certain values of the pulse period. Away from the resonance, the longitudinal field can drive the entanglement to near maximum values that is shown to agree well with those of random states. Further evidence is presented that the time-evolved states obtained do have some statistical properties of such random states. For contrast the case when the fields have a steady value is also discussed.
We discuss the interaction between two-level systems and the phonon field in noncrystalline dielectric solids, and we calculate the quantum transition matrix elements ofsuch an interaction. After studying the Boltzmann equation for phonon transport. we obtain the phonon distribution function. From a direct calculation of the heat current, and as a result of obtaining the thermal conductivity of non-crystalline dielectric solids, the P relation is obtained.
In relation to size segregation in shaken granular materials we highlight the important role of non-sequential particle dynamics and the complex nature of the coupling between the driving forces and the granular structures. We also discuss recent observations of two-dimensional shaking-induced size segregation.
This note describes a centrifugal impeller stirred oil bath, that has a stability for one hour of ?O.Ol"C over the range 90-300°C.
A robust √ swap gate is directly put forward by manipulating two diamond nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centres coupled to a photonic crystal nanocavity within quantum Zeno subspaces. This quantum gate is immune to both the loss of cavity and spontaneous emission of the NV centre, since no cavity photon or excited level of the NV centre is populated during the whole operation. The strictly numerical simulation shows that the average fidelity of the √ swap gate is high corresponding to the current experimental parameters.
We report positions, velocities, and metallicities of 50 ab-type RR Lyrae (RRab) stars observed in the vicinity of the Orphan stellar stream. Using about 30 RRab stars classified as being likely members of the Orphan stream, we study the metallicity and the spatial extent of the stream. We find that RRab stars in the Orphan stream have a wide range of metallicities, from -1.5 dex to -2.7 dex. The average metallicity of the stream is -2.1 dex, identical to the value obtained by Newberg et al. using blue horizontal branch stars. We find that the most distant parts of the stream (40-50 kpc from the Sun) are about 0.3 dex more metal-poor than the closer parts (within ∼30 kpc), suggesting a possible metallicity gradient along the stream's length. We have extended the previous studies and have mapped the stream up to 55 kpc from the Sun. Even after a careful search, we did not identify any more distant RRab stars that could plausibly be members of the Orphan stream. If confirmed with other tracers, this result would indicate a detection of the end of the leading arm of the stream. We have compared the distances of Orphan stream RRab stars with the best-fit orbits obtained by Newberg et al. We find that model 6 of Newberg et al. cannot explain the distances of the most remote Orphan stream RRab stars, and conclude that the best fit to distances of Orphan stream RRab stars and to the local circular velocity is provided by potentials where the total mass of the Galaxy within 60 kpc is M 60 ∼ 2.7 × 10 11 M , or about 60% of the mass found by previous studies. More extensive modeling that would consider non-spherical potentials and the possibility of misalignment between the stream and the orbit is highly encouraged.
We found an error in the numerical calculation of the entanglement of the four triplet states of helium reported in the last four lines of table 1 of the paper. The correct, numerically evaluated entanglement values corresponding to the first four triplet states of helium are reported in table 1 of this corrigendum.
We use a derived incompressible modified Navier-Stokes equation to model pipe flow and wall turbulence.
Experimental studies on the basic characteristics of IPs applied in γ-ray imaging are carried out by utilizing isotopic γ-ray sources. The 1.25 MeV γ-ray sensitivity of the BAS-MS and BAS-TR imaging plates and their enhanced sensitivity by covering appropriate Compton conversion foils are measured based on the studies of the image intensity linear calibration, time attenuation laws and the influence of scanning parameter settings. The energy-dependent γ-ray sensitivity of the IPs is also obtained by the studies of the measured sensitivity and the Monte Carlo simulated energy deposition in the IPs' sensitive layer. Furthermore, a method of a sandwich detection structure as well as its primary experimental validations are presented in order to increase the gamma-to-neutron ratio in a γ/n mixed radiation field.
Recently it was shown that the area A and the angular momentum J of any apparent horizon on a maximal, axisymmetric and asymptotically flat Cauchy hyper-surface of a vacuum space-time satisfy necessarily the universal inequality A 8π |J|. We show here that the equality A = 8π |J| is never attained. We study too the global structure of data sets having surfaces with A = 8π |J|. This lead us to prove the rigidity of the extreme Kerr-throats and to investigate the important phenomenon of formation of extreme Kerr-throats along sequences of data sets.
We study, beyond the Gaussian approximation, the decay of the translational order correlation function for a d-dimensional scalar periodic elastic system in a disordered environment. We develop a method based on functional determinants, equivalent to summing an infinite set of diagrams. We obtain, in dimension d = 4ε, the even n-th cumulant of relative displacements as [u(r)u( 
We present the first detection of extragalactic submillimeter H 2 O maser in the 321 GHz transition toward the center of Circinus galaxy, the nearby Type 2 Seyfert using the Atacama Large Millimeter/Submillimeter Array. We find that Doppler features of the detected 321 GHz H 2 O maser straddle the systemic velocity of the galaxy as seen in the spectrum of the known 22 GHz H 2 O maser in the galaxy. By comparing the velocities of the maser features in both transitions, it can be deduced that the 321 GHz maser occurs in a region similar to that of the 22 GHz maser, where the sub-parsec-scale distribution of the 22 GHz maser was revealed by earlier very long baseline interferometry observations. The detected maser features remain unresolved at the synthesized beam of ∼0. 66 (∼15 pc) and coincide with the 321 GHz continuum peak within small uncertainties. We also present a tentative detection of the highest velocity feature (redshifts up to ∼635 km s -1 ) in the galaxy. If this high-velocity feature arises from a Keplerian rotating disk well established in this galaxy, it is located at a radius of ∼0.018 pc (∼1.2×10 5 Schwarzschild radii), which might probe molecular material closest to the central engine.
Objective. The bedside detection of potential awareness in patients with disorders of consciousness (DOC) currently relies only on behavioral observations and tests; however, the misdiagnosis rates in this patient group are historically relatively high. In this study, we proposed a visual hybrid brain-computer interface (BCI) combining P300 and steady-state evoked potential (SSVEP) responses to detect awareness in severely brain injured patients. Approach. Four healthy subjects, seven DOC patients who were in a vegetative state (VS, n = 4) or minimally conscious state (MCS, n = 3), and one locked-in syndrome (LIS) patient attempted a command-following experiment. In each experimental trial, two photos were presented to each patient; one was the patientʼs own photo, and the other photo was unfamiliar. The patients were instructed to focus on their own or the unfamiliar photos. The BCI system determined which photo the patient focused on with both P300 and SSVEP detections. Main results. Four healthy subjects, one of the 4 VS, one of the 3 MCS, and the LIS patient were able to selectively attend to their own or the unfamiliar photos (classification accuracy, 66-100%). Two additional patients (one VS and one MCS) failed to attend the unfamiliar photo (50-52%) but achieved significant accuracies for their own photo (64-68%). All other patients failed to show any significant response to commands (46-55%). Significance. Through the hybrid BCI system, command following was detected in four healthy subjects, two of 7 DOC patients, and one LIS patient. We suggest that the hybrid BCI system could be used as a supportive bedside tool to detect awareness in patients with DOC.
A new dual floating gate flash memory cell using constant bias voltages for multilevel operation is proposed to increase memory density. Channel hot electrons (CHE) and drain avalanche hot electrons (DAHE) are used to store different amounts of charge in different floating gates. To erase the data, channel fowler-nordheim (FN) tunneling is applied first, and then substrate hot electron (SHE) injection is utilized to prevent from over erase and tighten the threshold voltage spread. The simulation results indicate that the multilevel flash memory cell with slight modifications of triple well technology is a promising device for future multilevel operation devices.
The prototype of accreting, pulsating white dwarfs (GW Lib) underwent a large amplitude dwarf nova outburst in 2007. We used ultraviolet data from Galaxy Evolution Explorer and ground-based optical photometry and spectroscopy to follow GW Lib for three years following this outburst. Several variations are apparent during this interval. The optical shows a superhump modulation in the months following outburst, while a 19 minute quasi-periodic modulation lasting for several months is apparent in the year after outburst. A long timescale (about 4 hr) modulation first appears in the UV a year after outburst and increases in amplitude in the following years. This variation also appears in the optical two years after outburst but is not in phase with the UV. The pre-outburst pulsations are not yet visible after three years, likely indicating the white dwarf has not returned to its quiescent state.
A question whether there exists an interaction between the spins of the endohedral atom A@C 60 and the properties of the confining shell which might affect the alignment of, or manipulation by, the spins for building a register for a quantum computer is discussed. It is argued that an effect, termed the 'C 60 spin-charging' effect, can occur in endohedral atoms and would affect the operation of a quantum register. The effect is exemplified by choosing the 3d (Cr and Mn) and 4d (Mo and Tc) transition metal atoms as well as a rare-earth Eu atom as the case study. A class of high-spin atoms which are less suitable for building a quantum register is, thus, identified.
Recently the NA60 collaboration has presented high precision measurements of dimuon spectra double differential in invariant mass M and transverse pair momentum p T in In-In collisions at 158 A GeV. While the M-dependence is important for an understanding of in-medium changes of light vector mesons and is p T integrated insensitive to collective expansion, the p T -dependence arises from an interplay between emission temperature and collective transverse flow. This fact can be exploited to derive constraints on the evolution model and in particular on the contributions of different phases of the evolution to dimuon radiation into a given M window. We present arguments that a thermalized evolution phase with T > 170 MeV leaves its imprint on the spectra.
We present another topological superfluid with s-wave pairing for ultracold fermionic atoms in addition to the chiral topological superfluid proposed by Sato et al (2009 Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 020401), of which edge dislocations host Majorana zero modes that may be utilized as decoherence-free qubits, and quantized vortices trap zero energy modes. The quantum phase fluctuations for topological superfluids and Berezinsky-Kosterlitz-Thouless transition are also discussed.
Disentanglement and loss of quantum correlations due to one global collective noise effect are described for two-qubit Schrödinger cat and Werner states of a four level trapped ion quantum system. Once the Jaynes-Cummings ionic interactions are mapped onto a Dirac spinor structure, the elementary tools for computing quantum correlations of two-qubit ionic states are provided. With two-qubit quantum numbers related to the total angular momentum and to its projection onto the direction of an external magnetic field (which lifts the degeneracy of the ion's internal levels), a complete analytical profile of entanglement for the Schrödinger cat and Werner states is obtained. Under vacuum noise (during spontaneous emission), the two-qubit entanglement in the Schrödinger cat states is shown to vanish asymptotically. Otherwise, the robustness of Werner states is concomitantly identified, with the entanglement content recovered by their noiseless-like evolution. Most importantly, our results point to a firstly reported sudden transition between classical and quantum decay regimes driven by a classical collective noise on the Schrödinger cat states, which has been quantified by the geometric discord.
The Mølmer-Sørensen gate is a state-of-the-art entangling gate in ion trap quantum computing where the gate fidelity can exceed 99%. Here we propose an analogous implementation in the setting of cavity QED. The cavity photon mode acts as the bosonic degree of freedom in the gate in contrast to that played by the phonon mode in ion traps. This is made possible by utilising cavity assisted Raman transitions interconnecting the logical qubit states embedded in a fourlevel energy structure, making the 'anti-Jaynes-Cummings' term available under the rotatingwave approximation. We identify practical sources of infidelity and discuss their effects on the gate performance. Our proposal not only demonstrates an alternative entangling gate scheme but also sheds new light on the relationship between ion traps and cavity QED, in the sense that many techniques developed in the former are transferable to the latter through our framework.
Bipartite entanglement is a necessary resource in most processes in quantum information science. Decoherence resulting from the interaction of the bipartite system with environment not only degrades the entanglement, but can result in abrupt disentanglement, known as entanglement sudden death (ESD). In some cases, a subsequent revival of entanglement is also possible. ESD is an undesirable feature for the state to be used as a resource in applications. In order to delay or avoid ESD, it is necessary to understand its origin. In this work we investigate the role of initial coherence on entanglement dynamics of a spatially separated two qubit system in a common vacuum reservoir with dipolar interaction. We construct two classes of X states, namely, states with one photon coherence (X 1 ) and states with two photon coherence (X 2 ). Considering them as initial states, we study entanglement dynamics under Markov approximation. We find for states in X 1 , ESD time, revival time and time over which the state remains disentangled increase with increase in coherence. On the other hand for states in X 2 , with increase in coherence ESD time increases, revival time remains same and time of disentanglement decreases. Thus states with two photon coherence are better resources for applications since their entanglement is robust against decoherence compared to states with one photon coherence.
The design of a symmetrical solid oxide fuel cell comprising identical anode and cathode material brings numerous advantages over a conventional cell with different anode and cathode materials. In this report, A-site layered perovskite with an SmBaMn 2 O 5+δ composition is synthesized and thoroughly investigated as the electrode material for symmetrical cells. The SmBaMn 2 O 5+δ material with a P4/nmm structure remains stable in both reducing and oxidizing atmospheres at elevated temperatures, but with a difference of ca. 1 mol in the oxygen content per mole of SmBaMn 2 O 5+δ between the oxidized and the reduced materials. The SmBaMn 2 O 5+δ material shows high electrical conductivity in air and an acceptable value in 5% H 2 /Ar at 750-900 °C, and it exhibits outstanding catalytic activity toward oxygen reduction and hydrogen oxidization reactions with polarization resistance values of 0.066 and 0.313 Ω cm 2 in air and humidified H 2 at 900 °C, respectively. The power density of a laboratory-scale La 0.8 Sr 0.2 Ga 0.8 Mg 0.2 O 3-δ electrolyte-supported cell with SmBaMn 2 O 5+δ as symmetrical electrodes reaches 782 mW cm -2 at 900 °C. Our results demonstrate that the A-site ordered SmBaMn 2 O 5+δ can be considered as an attractive electrode material for symmetrical solid oxide fuel cells.
We extend the linearised solution of Polchinski and Strassler describing the supergravity dual of the N = 1 * gauge theory. By analysing the equations of motion of type IIB supergravity at cubic order in the mass perturbation parameter, we demonstrate the emergence of a 3-form flux of type (3, 0) with respect to the natural complex structure. The generation of this flux can be associated to the dynamical formation of a gaugino condensate in the confining phase of the N = 1 * gauge theory. We also check that the supersymmetry conditions are satisfied, and we discuss how this (3, 0)-form flux is tied to the existence of a supersymmetric background with SU(2)-structure.
We describe and test a simple quantitative schlieren method for measuring the slope of an unsteady free liquid surface along a straight segment. The optical system, based on an anamorphic element placed at the focal plane of a standard objective, forms a distorted image of the illuminated segment on a screen. The abscissa of the resulting bright curve is proportional to the coordinate along the segment and the ordinate to the longitudinal slope at the corresponding coordinate, provided that the transverse slope component is negligible. The method is useful to probe axisymmetric flows along a diameter or flows in straight channels along the axis.
A new method for the processing of textured YBa 2 Cu 3 O y (Y123) thick film stripes on metallic tapes is discussed. The process involves the texturing of Y123 grains by a localized directional solidification method by creating constitutional gradients along the width of the precursor Y 2 BaCuO 5 (Y211) stripe during an infiltration and growth process. The differences in the solidification temperatures of different rare earth 123 compounds were utilized to generate the constitutional gradients. The sample configuration involves printed lines of light (Nd) and heavy (Yb) rare earth compounds on either side of an airbrushed Y211 stripe underneath a liquid phase (barium cuprates) layer. The higher peritectic temperature (T p ) Nd regions serve as nucleating sites for Y123 grains nucleated in the adjacent Y211 stripes and the constitutional gradients produced due to the diffusion of respective rare earth ions between the Nd and Yb regions, typically of 200 K cm -1 in the region, induce a driving force for the directional growth of the nucleated grains. The solidification is analogous to that in a typical Bridgman furnace in applied high temperature gradients. The process, being independent of growth rate parameter and texture of the underlying substrate, is suitable for the fabrication of long length thick film conductors by a wind and react process in simple box type furnaces.
Numerical results concerning the interaction between a transverse electrical discharge and an external HV circuit in nitrogen are reported. The proposed model is based on a fluid description of the discharge plasma and on Poisson's law for the field calculation. This model includes secondary ionization effects and a study of the HV circuit behaviour by means of classical differential circuit equations. In particular, the influence of some circuit components on cathode region formation and on the discharge (pumping) current is studied. Results are reported for space and time variations of the electric field distribution, charged particle densities, net charge density and cathode sheath evolution. For a gap length of 1 cm and for 40 Torr, the cathode field reaches high values (50 kV cm -1 ), the electron density is about 10 14 cm -3 and the cathode-oriented plasma front propagates towards the cathode with a velocity greater than 10 6 cm s -1 . The maximum pumping current value (30 kA) is obtained in 5 ns and corresponds to a spark-gap inductance L s = 5 nH. The very fast growth of the pumping current is associated with the effective contribution of secondary ionization cathode effects.
Abstrnct. We determine sone gravirarional effects in the classical and quantum massive scalar field theories near a point mass in the Einstein Wry in lhne dimensions and near a particular spinning point mass in the topologically massive gravity. Classically, we find the expression, to a first-order approximation in lhe deficit angle of the conical spacetine. for lhe self-force acting on a scalar charge at re% Within quantum field tkmy, we obtain the vacuum expectation value of lhe energymomentum operator for a massive scalar field by determining the Euclidean Green fundon. We provide an explicit expression for the vacuum energy-monentum tensor to ruSt order in lhe deficit angle for an arbitrary coupling parameter. Near a point mas in the Einstein theory. we calculate the gravitational force on a massive test particle due to the backreaction of the vacuum energymomentum tensor. For the minimal and conformal c o u p l i , we show that lhe gravitational force is always a l W v e . Near lhe pmicuiw spinning poinf mass in the topologically massive gravity, we can prove that the gravitational force is always atuactive for a massless scalar field.
We study the creation of bipartite and multipartite continuous variable entanglement in structures of coupled quantum harmonic oscillators. By adjusting the interaction strengths between nearest neighbours we show how to maximize the entanglement production between the arms in a Y-shaped structure where an initial single mode squeezed state is created in the first oscillator of the input arm. We also consider the action of the same structure as an approximate quantum cloner. For a specific time in the system dynamics the last oscillators in the output arms can be considered as imperfect copies of the initial state. By increasing the number of arms in the structure, multipartite entanglement is obtained, as well as 1 → M cloning. Finally, we consider configurations that implement the symmetric splitting of an initial entangled state. All calculations are carried out within the framework of the rotating wave approximation in quantum optics, and our predictions could be tested with current available experimental techniques.
We have grown single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) from Co catalyst thin films using the alcohol catalytic chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method for different CVD processing times. The structural properties of the SWCNTs grown have been investigated by Raman spectroscopy with various laser excitations. The growth progressed up to t ¼ 20 min, but the Raman intensity of SWCNTs decreased with increasing CVD processing time. The quality of as-grown SWCNTs also decreased with increasing CVD processing times, similar to the trend for Raman intensity. Raman intensity analysis in the radial breathing mode region shows a relatively wide distribution for SWCNTs grown for all CVD processing times, owing to the variations in growth and burning rates with SWCNT diameter. In this paper, we suggest that Co catalyst poisoning and SWCNT burning occur when the CVD processing time is more than 20 min.
Formulae are derived for the variation in time of transmission of light through dilute colloidal solutions of uniaxial particles which are initially orientated by an external electric or magnetic field from the instant the field is removed Two cases are considered. (I) particles opaque and large compared with the wavelength of light, and (ii) metallic particles small compared with the wavelength.
In the study of level spacing functions for the eigenvalues of random matrices.
A scattering theory of perpendicular transport in metallic multilayers is presented with emphasis on the effects of interface disorder. The diffuse and specular contributions to the interface roughness scattering are shown to be equally important. New predictions for the transport properties of interfaces with a low concentration of strongly scattering defects should be accessible to verification by experiments. The theory is applied to the spin-valve effect in magnetic multilayers.
In the endeavour to scale up the number of qubits in an ionbased quantum computer several groups have started to develop miniaturized ion traps for extended spatial control and manipulation of the ions. Shuttling and separation of ion strings have been the foremost issues in linear-trap arrangements and some prototypes of junctions have been demonstrated for the extension of ion motion to two dimensions (2D). While junctions require complex trap structures, small extensions to the 1D motion can be accomplished in simple linear trap arrangements. Here, control of the extended field in a planar, linear chip trap is used to shuttle ions in 2D. With this approach, the order of ions in a string is deterministically reversed. Optimized potentials are theoretically derived and simulations show that the reordering can be carried out adiabatically. The control over individual ion positions in a linear trap presents a new tool for ion-trap quantum computing. The method is also expected to work with mixed crystals of different ion species and as such could have applications for sympathetic cooling of an ion string.
A s in the GaInP layer during the growth process were considered as three major factors giving rise to the anomalous emissions in the PL spectra. Both thermal annealing and zinc doping strongly enhanced the compositional interdiffusion near the heteroin terfaces.
We consider quantum learning machines-quantum computers that modify themselves in order to improve their performance in some way-that are trained to perform certain classical task, i.e. to execute a function that takes classical bits as input and returns classical bits as output. This allows a fair comparison between learning efficiency of quantum and classical learning machines in terms of the number of iterations required for completion of learning. We find an explicit example of the task for which numerical simulations show that quantum learning is faster than its classical counterpart. The task is extraction of the kth root of NOT (NOT = logical negation), with k = 2 m and m ∈ N. The reason for this speed-up is that the classical machine requires memory of size log k = m to accomplish the learning, while the memory of a single qubit is sufficient for the quantum machine for any k.
The construction of symmetric states of N particles with angular momentum j = 1 is presented.
Recent theory shows that sound can be controlled and directed almost at will provided that suitable materials can be found. Here, we propose a structure permeated by a fluid and designed so that the composite medium, the metafluid, has an anisotropic density tensor, and a compressibility of choice.
An impact-parameter treatment is used to obtain cross sections for reactions such as Na 2P1,2 +He --f Na 2P3,2 +He. The coupled equations with and without rotational coupling are numerically solved. The relation between this work and the Landau Zener formula is discussed. I t is shown that rotational coupling cannot be neglected even at low velocities.
We report on high correlation and ordering of multi-electron transfer at neutralionic transformation in quasi-one-dimensional prototype crystal of tetrathiafulvalene-chloranil (TTF-CA). We present experimental evidences that the ordering of lattice-relaxed chargetransfer strings, which are nano-scale objects, occurs under static thermal equilibrium condition and non-equilibrium one achieved by femto-second laser irradiation. We suggest that the transformation is a profound example of self-organized, cooperative electron transfer with tendency for phase separation driven by energetics of inter-chain interaction and ferroelectric ordering.
A condition upon which sporadic bursts (intermittent behaviour) of the relative energy become possible is derived for the motion in the chaotic layer around the separatrix of a non-linear resonance. This is a condition for the existence of a marginal resonance, i.e. a resonance located at the border of the layer. A separatrix map in ChirikovÏs form [Chirikov, B. V.,  Phys. Reports 52, 263 (1979)] is used to describe the motion. In order to provide a straightforward comparison with numeric integrations, the separatrix map is synchronized to the surface of the section farthest from the saddle point. The condition of intermittency is applied to clear out the nature of the phenomenon of bursts of the eccentricity of chaotic asteroidal trajectories in the 3/1 mean motion commensurability with Jupiter. On the basis of the condition, a new intermittent regime of resonant asteroidal motion is predicted and then identiÐed in numeric simulations.
This paper is a theoretical and experimental investigation of three identical oscillators with weak symmetric coupling. We find that the dynamics is governed by an ODE on the 2-torus with S , symmetry. A new type of codimension-one global bifurcation in such systems is predicted, and found experimentally in a network of three coupled van der Pol oscillators.
We have calculated some properties of spin polarized strange quark matter (SQM) in a strong magnetic field at zero temperature using the MIT bag model. We showed that the equation of state of spin polarized SQM is stiffer than that for unpolarized cases. We have also computed the structural properties of a spin polarized strange quark star (SQS) and found that the presence of a magnetic field leads to a more stable SQS when compared to the structural properties of an unpolarized SQS.
A study has been carried out into the conduction, charge transfer/electron injection and photovoltaic conversion properties of TiO 2 -lead phthalocyanine (PbPc) heterojunctions. The results indicate that although the heterojunction area, and hence overall conversion efficiency, was low for the planar device structures used in the investigation, electron injection and effective charge separation across the dye-TiO 2 interface was achieved, with open circuit voltages in the region of 0.3 V. The conversion efficiency was found to be a function of the thickness of the phthalocyanine layer, increasing by a factor of more than 30 times as the thickness of the dye layer was reduced from 500 to 100 nm. The results suggest that under appropriate deposition conditions, to ensure effective coating of the inorganic phase, such phthalocyanine dyes may offer potential for use in dye sensitized photovoltaic cells.
Based on the nearly-free-electron approximation, the bias dependencies of electron transport properties offerromagnet /ferromagnetic insulator (semiconductor) /ferromagnet junctions have been studied. Resonances appear in electron transmission probability. These resonances cause oscillations in the zero-temperature tunnel current and the resonances occur in tunnel conductance. Tunnel magnetoresistance (TMR) is an oscillatory function of bias. The TMR can reach a value as high as 100%. The bias dependencies of electron transport properties relate to the magnetic configurations of the junctions.
The behaviour of the critical function for the breakdown of the homotopically non-trivial invariant (KAM) curves for the standard map, as the rotation number tends to a rational number, is investigated using a version of Greene's residue criterion. The results are compared with the analogous ones for the radius of convergence of the Lindstedt series, in which case rigorous theorems have been proved. The conjectured interpolation of the critical function in terms of the Bryuno function is discussed.
Heat dissipation is one of the most important issues for the reliability of electronic equipment. Boiling can be a very efficient heat transfer mechanism when used to face with the electronic technology needs of efficient and compact heat sinks. Recently, cellular structured materials both stochastic and periodic, particularly open cell metal foams, have been proposed as possible enhanced surfaces to lower the junction temperatures at high heat fluxes. Up today, most of the research on metal foams only regards single phase flow, whereas the two phase flow is still almost unexplored. This paper presents an experimental study on the heat transfer of R134a during flow boiling inside a 5 PPI (Pores Per linear Inch) copper foam, which is 5 mm high, 10 mm wide and 200 mm long, and it is brazed on a 10 mm thick copper plate. The experimental measurements were carried out by imposing three different heat fluxes (50, 75, and 100 kW m -2 ) and by varying the refrigerant mass velocity between 50 and 200 kg m -2 s -1 and the vapour quality from 0.2 to 0.90, at constant saturation temperature (30°C). The effects of the refrigerant mass flow rate, heat flux and vapour quality on the heat transfer coefficient, dry out phenomenon, and pressure drop are studied.
Self-organized nanopatterns on vicinal N-adsorbed Cu(001) surfaces have been studied by scanning tunneling microscopy. A stripe pattern appears on the Cu(001)-c(2 × 2)N surface vicinal to the 110 direction. The surface consists of 1-nm-wide lines of clean Cu(001) surface and 2-nm-wide c(2 × 2)N lines. There are two stripe domains, in which the Cu lines are parallel or perpendicular to the step edges. On the surface vicinal to the 100 direction, there appears a one-dimensional array of 5×5 nm 2 square patches of c(2 × 2)N surface separated by a 1-nm-wide clean Cu surface. [
The authors have studied the stability of helical modes in a current carrying stellarator, ignoring the curvature of the axis and plasma pressure. They show that it is possible to fully stabilize a current column with a given arbitrary current value against both ideal and tearing modes by superimposing an external stellarator rotational transform with a sufficiently large value of its difference along the radius, |AtJ = |*h(a) -^(0)1, in configurations of two types, namely with the total rotational transform increasing or decreasing with the radius. The value of the difference |Aihl needed for stabilization increases with the value of the total current.
We demonstrate an implementation scheme for constructing quantum gates using unitary evolutions of the one-dimensional spin-J ferromagnetic XXZ chain. We present numerical results based on simulations of the chain using the time-dependent density matrix renormalization group method and techniques from optimal control theory. Using only a few control parameters, we find that it is possible to implement one-and two-qubit gates on a system of spin-3 2 XXZ chains, such as Not, Hadamard, Pi-8, Phase and C-Not, with fidelity levels exceeding 99%.
In this paper we give a method for constructing systematically all simple 2connected graphs with n vertices from the set of simple 2-connected graphs with n -1 vertices, by means of two operations: subdivision of an edge and addition of a vertex. The motivation of our study comes from the theory of non-ideal gases and, more specifically, from the virial equation of state. It is a known result of statistical mechanics that the coefficients in the virial equation of state are sums over labeled 2-connected graphs. These graphs correspond to clusters of particles. Thus, theoretically, the virial coefficients of any order can be calculated by means of 2-connected graphs used in the virial coefficient of the previous order. Our main result gives a method for constructing inductively all simple 2-connected graphs, by induction on the number of vertices. Moreover, the two operations we are using maintain the correspondence between graphs and clusters of particles.
A fine scale drift wave mode possessing unusually high frequency 2-3 MHz and radial wave number is observed using the correlative upper hybrid resonance backscattering technique at the FT-2 tokamak under conditions when the ETG mode should be unstable. The radial wave number spectrum of turbulence is measured and shown to be maximal at values 120-170 cm -1 corresponding to the largest ETG instability growth rate.
Good results have been achieved with channel electron multipliers of complex construction. The active materials used were either polymers doped with metal oxides or complexes of tetracyanoquinodimethane (TCNQ). The gain and noise properties compare with those based on glass or ceramics. In addition other useful characteristics allow a wide range of applications.
We have measured the photoelectron distribution curves of single-crystal faces of copper, silver and gold using photon energies of 11.83, 16.85 and 21.22 eV. The photoelectrons are collected in a narrow cone normal to the surfaces. Our results show the existence of occupied surface states in the L gaps of each noble metal. The intensity of the measured surface-state peaks drastically decreases with increasing photon energy.
In this paper, molecular quantum computation is numerically studied with the quantum search algorithm (Grover's algorithm) by means of optimal control simulation. Qubits are implemented in the vibronic states of I 2 , while gate operations are realized by optimally designed laser pulses. The methodological aspects of the simulation are discussed in detail. We show that the algorithm for solving a gate pulse-design problem has the same mathematical form as a state-to-state control problem in the density matrix formalism, which provides monotonically convergent algorithms as an alternative to the Krotov method. The sequential irradiation of separately designed gate pulses leads to the population distribution predicted by Grover's algorithm. The computational accuracy is reduced by the imperfect quality of the pulse design and by the electronic decoherence processes that are modeled by the non-Markovian master equation. However, as long as we focus on the population distribution of the vibronic qubits, we can search a target state with high probability without introducing error-correction processes during the computation. A generalized gate pulsedesign scheme to explicitly include decoherence effects is outlined, in which we propose a new objective functional together with its solution algorithm that guarantees monotonic convergence.
A theoretical analysis has been made of the 'multipactor'? or 'dynamic secondary emission' process as used in an image intensifier tube described by the authors in 1962. Electron multiplication equivalent to several stages of secondary emission is achieved by repeated use of a single emitting surface serving both as photocathode and as dynodes. The equations of motion of the electrons have been solved by computer and the results are presented as universal curves which may be used to predict the performance of all tubes of the class considered. Using reasonable dimensions and voltages it is not difficult to obtain secondary emission yields of six per cycle for any convenient number of cycles. U p to SO% of the photoelectrons emitted during the first cycle will be caught up in the multiplying system and there is no loss of secondaries. Instability is avoided by stopping the process after several cycles and starting again with new photoelectrons.
Congruently melting undoped lithium niobate crystals are irradiated with 20 MeV 3 He ions which penetrate the entire crystal volume. Radiation damage effects are directly visualized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) where damage zones with diameters of 4 nm give rise to circular Fresnel fringe contrasts. These regions of modified material, appearing circular in cross-section, are interpreted as damage cascades inflicted by fast Nb and O atoms displaced in knock-on collisions with primary 3 He ions. This two-step displacement process results in local density changes manifested by the contrast behaviour of Fresnel fringes observed in TEM images.
I present high-resolution column density maps of two molecular clouds (MCs) having strikingly different star formation rates. To better understand the unusual, massive G216-2.5, an MC with no massive star formation, the distribution of its molecular gas is compared to that of the Rosette MC. Far-infrared data from Herschel are used to derive N(H 2 ) maps of each cloud and are combined with I CO data to determine the CO-to-H 2 ratio, X CO . In addition, the probability distribution functions (PDFs) and cumulative mass fractions of the clouds are compared. For G216-2.5, á ñ = Ń (H ) 7.8 10 2 20 cm -2 and á ñ = X 2.2 10 CO 20 cm -2 (K km s -1 ) -1 ; for the Rosette,
At temperature above 1 K, we measured the temperature dependence of the longitudinal and Hall resistivity ρxx, ρxy in the regime of the quantum Hall plateau-to-plateau transitions. The localization exponent v is extracted with an approach based on the variable range hopping theory. We find the quantity v ≈ 2.3 at the second Landau level, which is proven to be accurately universal.
The state-selective dissociation dynamics for anionic and excited neutral fragments of gaseous SiCl 4 following Cl 2p and Si 2p core-level excitations were characterized by combining measurements of the photoninduced anionic dissociation, x-ray absorption and UV/visible dispersed fluorescence. The transitions of core electrons to high Rydberg states/doubly excited states in the vicinity of both Si 2p and Cl 2p ionization thresholds of gaseous SiCl 4 lead to a remarkably enhanced production of anionic, Si -and Cl -, fragments and excited neutral atomic, Si * , fragments. This enhancement via core-level excitation near the ionization threshold of gaseous SiCl 4 is explained in terms of the contributions from the Auger decay of doubly excited states, shake-modified resonant Auger decay, or/and post-collision interaction. These complementary results provide insight into the state-selective anionic and excited neutral fragmentation of gaseous molecules via core-level excitation.
Cross sections for the IS-2s and 1%2Po transitions in I--assisted e--H(lS) collisions me calculated in both the multichannel eikonal treatment and the Born wave approximation, as a function of impact energy and laser field intensity.
The ac loss in high-T c superconductors near the glass-liquid transition temperature T g is studied numerically and theoretically. It is found that the ac loss in a slab sample under a dc bias magnetic field depends remarkably on the angular frequency, ω, which cannot be described by the usual critical state model using the critical current density J c defined with the electric field criterion. However, it is shown that the ac loss including the flux flow loss is described quantitatively by the well known expression based on the Bean critical state model, where J c is replaced by the effective critical current density J ce (ω). The applicability of the present expression is also discussed.
Bound states and resonances of energy E , in the atoms of a crystal severely distort the band structure of the crystal in a systematic fashion. The distortions extend throughout the energy range E , to (c I H , I c), though at the intermediate energies one must look far out into the complex k plane near ki 5 (c I H , I c)liZ. The distortions are expected to be of importance in several surface phenomena.
The feasibility of high-fidelity single-qubit operations on a hole spin in a quantum dot molecule by electric g tensor control is demonstrated. Apart from a constant external magnetic field the proposed scheme allows for an exclusively electric control of the hole spin. Realistic electric gate bias profiles are identified for various qubit operations using process-tomography-based optimal control. They are shown to be remarkably robust against decoherence and dissipation arising from the interaction of the hole with host-lattice nuclear spins and phonons, with a fidelity loss of ≈ 1% for gate operation times of ≈10 ns. Spin-echo experiments for the hole spin are modeled to explore dephasing mechanisms and the role of pulse-timing imperfections in the gate fidelity loss is discussed.
A technique is investigated for increasing the focal length of an existing microlens or microlens array to realize long focal length microlenses. Photoresist microlens arrays have been fabricated and immersed in oils of various refractive indices (index-matching oil), extending the range of easily achievable numerical apertures towards lower values. The focal length can be altered by exchanging the oil for another with a different refractive index. We derive simple design relations which predict the changes in focal length, spherical aberration and astigmatism due to the oil immersion of the lens. Using these relations and oils of various refractive indices we have calculated the photoresist refractive index to be 1.64 ± 0.02. The effects of altering the focal length on the on-and off-axis aberrations have also been measured and agreement with our design equations has been demonstrated.
Future quantum optical networks will require the ability to route entangled photons at high speeds, with minimal loss and added in-band noise, and-most importantly-without disturbing the photons' quantum state. Here we present an all-optical switch that fulfills these requirements and characterize its performance at the single-photon level. It exhibits a 200 ps switching window, 120 : 1 contrast, 1.5 dB loss, and induces no measurable degradation in the switched photons' entangled-state fidelity (<0.002). As a proof-of-principle demonstration of its capability, we use the switch to demultiplex a single quantum channel from a dual-channel, time-division-multiplexed entangled photon stream. Furthermore, because this type of switch couples the temporal and spatial degrees of freedom, it provides an important new tool with which to encode multiple-qubit quantum states on a single photon.
In this paper, we report on studies aimed at sensing the stiffness of biological membranes, in particular in the case of lipidic vesicles. To obtain pertinent results, we have developed and checked a specific sensor based on a vibrating sphere. The near-field acoustic wave generated by this vibrating sphere enables us to characterize biological particles which change the apparent viscosity and density of the surrounding fluid. The microsphere is well suited for very small volumes of liquid (typically about a few microlitres). The experimental results demonstrate the high sensitivity of the sensor to small variations of the composition of the aqueous media, particularly in the case of various populations of lipidic nanoparticles. Finally, this microviscosimeter demonstrates its ability to discriminate the population of vesicles on the basis of their global viscous properties.
Cosmic strings induce minihalo formation in the early universe. The resultant minihalos cluster in string wakes and create a "21 cm forest" against the cosmic microwave background (CMB) spectrum. Such a 21 cm forest can contribute to angular fluctuations of redshifted 21 cm signals integrated along the line of sight. We calculate the root-meansquare amplitude of the 21 cm fluctuations due to strings and show that these fluctuations can dominate signals from minihalos due to primordial density fluctuations at high redshift (z 10), even if the string tension is below the current upper bound, Gµ < 1.5 × 10 -7 . Our results also predict that the Square Kilometre Array (SKA) can potentially detect the 21 cm fluctuations due to strings with Gµ ≈ 7.5 × 10 -8 for the single frequency band case and 4.0 × 10 -8 for the multi-frequency band case.
We estimate how well we will know the parameters of solar neutrino oscillations after KamLAND and Borexino. The expected error on ∆m 2 is few per-mille in the VO and QVO regions, few per-cent in the LMA region, and around 10% in the LOW region. The expected error on sin 2 2θ is around 5%. KamLAND and Borexino will tell unambiguously which specific new measurement, dedicated to pp solar neutrinos, is able to contribute to the determination of θ and perhaps of ∆m 2 . The present data suggest as more likely outcomes: no measurement, or the total pp rate, or its day/night variation.
We derive an improved prescription for the merging of matrix elements with parton showers, extending the CKKW approach. A flavour-dependent phase space separation criterion is proposed. We show that this new method preserves the logarithmic accuracy of the shower, and that the original proposal can be derived from it. One of the main requirements for the method is a truncated shower algorithm. We outline the corresponding Monte Carlo procedures and apply the new prescription to QCD jet production in e + e -collisions and Drell-Yan lepton pair production. Explicit colour information from matrix elements obtained through colour sampling is incorporated in the merging and the influence of different prescriptions to assign colours in the large N C limit is studied. We assess the systematic uncertainties of the new method.
The negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) defect (NV center) in diamond is a leading candidate to realize solid-state qubits and ultrasensitive magnetometers in ambient conditions. A new interpretation of some of the properties of the center is presented. We show that the double peak in the absorption phonon sidebands may correspond to the local a 1 and e vibration modes of the defect that have very similar energies, and that tunneling of nitrogen atoms in the vacancy does not occur as had been previously suggested. S Online supplementary data available from stacks.iop.org/NJP/13/025016/ mmedia Contents 1. Introduction 2 2. Atomistic structure of the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center and its electronic properties 2 3. Computational methodology for calculating local vibration modes (LVMs) 3 4. Results and discussion 5 5.
The electronic spin associated with the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centre in diamond interacts with an environment formed by isotopic impurities and paramagnetic defects; the strength of these interactions depends on the location of each impurity relative to the NV centre. From the electron spin resonance spectra of individual NV centres we infer the possible values and signs of hyperfine splittings from nearby 13 C nuclear spins at different lattice sites. Moreover, single-defect-centre nuclear magnetic resonance allows the examination of some of the inhomogeneities associated with the mesoscopic environment of NV-13 C systems. These measurements provide a check on ab initio calculations of electron spin density and have relevance for potential applications in nuclear spin quantum registers.
Experiments are reported on the acceleration of charged particles in the azimuthally varying magnetic field of the 1.5 metre cyclotron at the Institute of Atomic Energy, Academy of Sciences, USSR.r1'
The PIV technique is generalized from the viewpoint of the identification problem of a flow field. The process of obtaining a velocity distribution as an image measurement can be considered as a parametrization problem of a dynamical system. In almost all conventional techniques, the velocity is evaluated as the parameters in a dynamical system using a linear model without physics. These methods always give some spurious velocity vectors in the case of shear flow or vortex flow, and in the region where the tracer particles are scarce. A new PIV technique based on physics is proposed. The obtained velocity field satisfies the governing equation of the fluid. It is possible that not only the velocity but also the pressure is measured, using the Navier-Stokes equations for the dynamic model. The results of jet flow, cavity flow and flow around a waving airfoil demonstrate the effectiveness of this method.
A low-cost variable beam splitter is described. It is based on frustrated total internal reflection and is practically free from losses. Besides, during its regulation no deflection is introduced of the output beams, whose intensity distribution remains unaffected.
We have performed a trial deep inelastic neutron scaltering (DINS) ex-penmen1 on an aligned sample of a copolymer of poly(hydroxybenz0ic acid) and poly(hydroaynaph1oic acid). The experiment has k e n carried out on the eVS inelastic spectrometer of lhe ISIS facility, at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratozy (UK). The hydrogen alomic momentum distributions y ( p ) and n l ( p ) , corresponding 10 momentum lransfer Q parallel and perpendicular to lhe polymer main chain direction respectively, have been obtained as functions of the atomic momentum p. The experiment offers evidence of the insensilivily of the DINS technique to the degree of rigidity of lhe polymer main chain. Through lhe use of a quantum mechanical model we show that lhe hydrogen momenlum dislriburion is defined by the C-H bond and that bonds connected to the carbon or other interactions have no significant influence.
By considering charged black-hole solutions of a one-parameter family of twodimensional dilaton gravity theories, one finds the existence of quantum mechanically stable gravitational kinks with a simple mass-to-charge relation. Unlike their Einsteinian counterpart (i.e. extreme Reissner-Nordström), these have nonvanishing horizon surface gravity.
To date, various connection rerouting methods for connection-oriented mobile networks have been proposed. The previous methods, however, are limited to specific topologies or environments. In this paper, we propose the connection-information-based rerouting widely applicable to various connection-oriented mobile networks. This method requires neither a specific topology nor a complex connection, enables fast rerouting, provides appropriate route optimality, and can be extended easily.
In terms of a previously suggested iterative method for finding the lowest-lying eigenstate of hermitian matrices the problem of pseudo-convergence, i.e. the tendency to converge to an undesired eigenvalue, is discussed. A simple extension of this algorithm is presented which provides a means of identifying and circumventing pseudo-convergence in many cases. This extended scheme may also be used simultaneously to obtain excited states in a numerically economical manner.
Le rayonnement UV 3 vide emis dans Ies anneaux de stockage 2 61ectrons
We analyse the changes in the partial polarization of random, stationary light fields in transmission through a near-field probe. The probe is modelled as a two-dimensional metal-coated optical fibre tip through which the field is propagated by applying the boundary-integral method. Both the magnitude of the opening angle and the aperture size of the probe are found to significantly influence the partial polarization of the field. We discuss the results in terms of both the conventional two-dimensional and the recent three-dimensional formalism for the degree of polarization.
We construct a family of quasigraded Lie algebras that admit the Kostant-Adler scheme. They coincide with quasigraded deformations of the loop algebras in different gradings. Using them we explicitly construct new non-skewsymmetric classical r-matrices with spectral parameters. We consider examples of the constructed algebras and constructed r-matrices corresponding to the homogeneous quasigrading, Z 2 -quasigrading and to the principle quasigrading in detail.
Using the semiclassical approach to the Skyrme-HF energy density, we get the energy density functional X[p,:, p,] for a nucleon system. The variational calculation of this functional, under the condition of fixed nucleon number, results in a self-consistently determined nuclear ground state from which the nuclear giant resonances (GR) are studied using a sum rule approach. The moment of strength function, the centroid energy and the isospin properties of G R are calculated. All the results are in good agreement with experimental results and detailed H F + RPA ones.
We propose a stellar locus outlier (SLOT) method to determine the binary fraction of main-sequence stars statistically. The method is sensitive to neither the period nor mass ratio distributions of binaries and is able to provide model-free estimates of binary fraction for large numbers of stars of different populations in large survey volumes. We have applied the SLOT method to two samples of stars from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Stripe 82, constructed by combining the recalibrated SDSS photometric data with the spectroscopic information from the SDSS and LAMOST surveys. For the SDSS spectroscopic sample, we find an average binary fraction for field FGK stars of 41% ± 2%. The fractions decrease toward late spectral types and are 44% ± 5%, 43% ± 3%, 35% ± 5%, and 28% ± 6% for stars with gi colors in the range 0.3-0.6 mag, 0.6-0.9 mag, 0.9-1.2 mag, and 1.2-1.6 mag, respectively. A modest metallicity dependence is also found. The fraction decreases with increasing metallicity. For stars with [Fe/H] between -0.5 and 0.0 dex, -1.0 and -0.5 dex, -1.5 and -1.0 dex, and -2.0 and -1.5 dex, the inferred binary fractions are 37% ± 3%, 39% ± 3%, 50% ± 9%, and 53% ± 20%, respectively. We have further divided the sample into stars from the thin disk, the thick disk, the transition zone between them, and the halo. The results suggest that the Galactic thin and thick disks have comparable binary fractions, whereas the Galactic halo contains a significantly larger fraction of binaries. Applying the method to the LAMOST spectroscopic sample yields consistent results. Finally, other potential applications and future work with the method are discussed.
In this paper, we investigate totally asymmetric exclusion processes on lattices with junctions, considering random particle attachment and detachment in the bulk. Particles randomly attach to the bulk with the rate ω A and detach from the bulk with the rate ω D . Setting K = ω A /ω D , we study three cases: K > 1, K = 1 and K < 1. Extensive Monte Carlo simulations have been performed. It is found that different phase diagram structures arise in the three cases. While only four stationary phases could be found in the case of K > 1, additional phases are observed in the case of K ≤ 1. Moreover, it is shown that at a fixed K, the phase diagram structure changes with the increase of ω D . A mean-field analysis has been carried out and the analytic results are in good agreement with the simulation results.
A central problem in quantum information is to determine the minimal physical resources that are required for quantum computational speedup and, in particular, for fault-tolerant quantum computation. We establish a remarkable connection between the potential for quantum speed-up and the onset of negative values in a distinguished quasi-probability representation, a discrete analogue of the Wigner function for quantum systems of odd dimension. This connection allows us to resolve an open question on the existence of bound states for magic state distillation: we prove that there exist mixed states outside the convex hull of stabilizer states that cannot be distilled to non-stabilizer target states using stabilizer operations. We also provide an efficient simulation protocol for Clifford circuits that extends to a large class of mixed states, including bound universal states.
We discuss the characterization of a π-phase shift quantum gate acting on a qubit encoded in superpositions of coherent states. We adopt a technique relying on some a priori knowledge about the physics underlying the functioning of the device. A parameter summarizing the global quality of the quantum gate is obtained by 'virtually' processing an entangled state. With such an approach, we can facilitate the characterization of our gate, focusing on the useful subspace rather than on the entire phase space.
The k = 3 Read-Rezayi (RR) parafermion quantum Hall state hosts non-Abelian excitations which provide a platform for universal topological quantum computation. Although the RR state may be realized at the filling factor ν = 12/5 in GaAs-based two-dimensional electron systems, the corresponding quantum Hall state is weak and at present nearly impossible to study experimentally. Here we argue that the RR state can alternatively be realized in a class of chiral materials with massless and massive Dirac-like band structure. This family of materials encompasses monolayer and bilayer graphene, as well as topological insulators. We show that, compared to GaAs, these systems provide several important advantages in realizing and studying the RR state. Most importantly, the effective interactions can be tuned in situ by varying the external magnetic field, and by designing the dielectric environment of the sample. This tunability enables the realization of RR state with controllable energy gaps in different Landau levels. It also allows one to probe the quantum phase transitions to other compressible and incompressible phases.
The electronic spin associated with the nitrogen vacancy (NV) color center in diamond is an excellent candidate for a solid-state qubit functioning as a quantum register or sensor. However, the lack of thin film technologies for crystalline diamond with low impurity levels hampers the development of photonic interfaces to such diamond-based qubits. We present a method for manufacturing slabs of diamond of 200 nm thickness and several microns in extent from high-purity single crystal chemical vapor deposition diamond. We measure spin coherence times approaching 100 µs and observe increased photoluminescence collection from shallow implant NV centers in these slabs. We anticipate these slabs to be appealing as quantum memory nodes in hybrid diamond nanophotonic systems.
This paper investigates numerically a phenomenon which can be used to transport a single q-bit down a J 1 -J 2 Heisenberg spin chain using a quantum adiabatic process. The motivation for investigating such processes comes from the idea that this method of transport could potentially be used as a means of sending data to various parts of a quantum computer made of artificial spins, and that this method could take advantage of the easily prepared ground state at the so-called Majumdar-Ghosh point. We examine several annealing protocols for this process and find similar results for all of them. The annealing process works well up to a critical frustration threshold. There is also a brief section examining what other models this protocol could be used for, examining its use in the XXZ and XYZ models.
Heat dissipation is one of the most important issues for the reliability of electronic equipment. Boiling can be a very efficient heat transfer mechanism when used to face with the electronic technology needs of efficient and compact heat sinks. Recently, cellular structured materials both stochastic and periodic, particularly open cell metal foams, have been proposed as possible enhanced surfaces to lower the junction temperatures at high heat fluxes. Up today, most of the research on metal foams only regards single phase flow, whereas the two phase flow is still almost unexplored. This paper presents an experimental study on the heat transfer of R134a during flow boiling inside a 5 PPI (Pores Per linear Inch) copper foam, which is 5 mm high, 10 mm wide and 200 mm long, and it is brazed on a 10 mm thick copper plate. The experimental measurements were carried out by imposing three different heat fluxes (50, 75, and 100 kW m -2 ) and by varying the refrigerant mass velocity between 50 and 200 kg m -2 s -1 and the vapour quality from 0.2 to 0.90, at constant saturation temperature (30°C). The effects of the refrigerant mass flow rate, heat flux and vapour quality on the heat transfer coefficient, dry out phenomenon, and pressure drop are studied.
This paper provides some new a priori choice strategy for regularization parameters in order to obtain convergence rates in Tikhonov regularization for solving ill-posed problems Af 0 = g 0 , f 0 ∈ X, g 0 ∈ Y , with a linear operator A mapping in Hilbert spaces X and Y. Our choice requires only that the range of the adjoint operator A * includes a member of some variable Hilbert scale and is, in principle, applicable in the case of general f 0 without source conditions imposed otherwise in the existing papers. For testing our strategies, we apply them to the determination of a wave source, to the Abel integral equation, to a backward heat equation and to the determination of initial temperature by boundary observation.
This paper presents a single channel, low power 6-bit 410-MS/s asynchronous successive approximation register analog-to-digital converter (SAR ADC) for ultrawide bandwidth (UWB) communication, prototyped in a SMIC 65-nm process. Based on the 3 bits/stage structure, resistive DAC, and the modified asynchronous successive approximation register control logic, the proposed ADC attains a peak spurious-free dynamic range (SFDR) of 41.95 dB, and a signal-to-noise and distortion ratio (SNDR) of 28.52 dB for 370 MS/s. At the sampling rate of 410 MS/s, this design still performs well with a 40.71-dB SFDR and 30.02-dB SNDR. A four-input dynamic comparator is designed so as to decrease the power consumption. The measurement results indicate that this SAR ADC consumes 2.03 mW, corresponding to a figure of merit of 189.17 fJ/step at 410 MS/s.
It was first shown by Jacobs, in 2003, that the process of qubit state purification by continuous measurement of one observable can be enhanced, on average, by unitary feedback control. Here, we quantify this by the reduction in any one of the family of Rényi entropies α S , with α < < ∞ 0 , at some terminal time, revealing the rich structure of stochastic quantum control even for this simple problem. We generalize Jacobs' original argument, which was for the (unique) impurity measure with a linear evolution map under his protocol, by replacing linearity with convexity, thereby making it applicable to Rényi entropies α S for α in a finite interval about one. Even with this generalization, Jacobs' argument fails to identify the surprising fact, which we prove by Bellmanʼs principle of dynamic programming, that his protocol is globally optimal for all Rényi entropies whose decrease is locally maximized by that protocol. Also surprisingly, even though there is a range of Rényi entropies whose decrease is always locally maximized by the null-control protocol, that null-control protocol cannot be shown to be globally optimal in any instance. These results highlight the non-
This paper demonstrates that powerful laser radiation causes changes in the absorbance spectra of epoxy resin, polyethylene and polysulfone. Thin polymer films were located between IR AgBrCl optical fibres and exposed to the radiation of a CO 2 laser. The output of the laser source was varied in the range 0-8.5 W. The absorbance spectra were recorded using a Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrophotometer. It was revealed that characteristic polymer absorbance peaks decay under exposure to the powerful IR light. The apparent dependence of peak magnitude on IR radiation power has been established. We showed that the phenomenon of the absorbance peak disappearances associated with the polymers-thermoplastic (including an engineering polymer such as polysulfone) and thermosetting-is of a threshold nature. The mathematical theory of the observed effect was derived. We propose that the effect under discussion is caused by the oxygen-free thermal action of IR radiation on the chemical structure of the polymer materials. The revealed effect could be effectively used to lower the losses in adhesive contacts of IR optical elements. The novelty of the proposed method lies in the fact that thermal treatment is localized strictly within the adhesive layer; optical elements to be contacted (fibres, lenses, etc) which are highly IR transparent do not experience the IR radiation, but the polymer adhesive is subjected to a temperature rise.
Nickel oxide crystalline nano flakes (NONFs)-only about 10 nm wide-were produced using a simple and inexpensive chemistry method followed by a short annealing in ambient air. In a first step, Ni(OH) 2 sheets were synthesized by adding sodium hydroxide (NaOH) drop-wise in a Ni(NO 3 ) 2 aqueous solution that was then sonicated for up to 60 min, washed and vigorously stirred overnight in deionized water. In a second step, the products of this reaction were annealed in ambient air in the temperature range 285-450 °C producing the desired NONFs. The products were characterized using x-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy and high resolution transmission electron microscopy including electron diffraction and electron energy-loss spectroscopy. Electrochemical investigations showed that anodes made of these NONFs provided significantly higher discharge capacities (70 to 100% higher) compared to commercial nanometric NiO nanopowder used under the same conditions. Moreover, these NONFs had higher initial capacity retentions at both low and high current densities compared to the same NiO nanopowder.
A simple condition for metallurgical instability, useful in the development of processing maps for analysing high-temperature forming of metals, is suggested following a criterion based on continuum principles as applied to large plastic flow proposed by Ziegler. It can be used for any type of flow stress versus strain rate curve. This criterion has been validated using the flow stress data of a 6061 Al-10 vol% Al 2 O 3 metal matrix composite with microstructural observations. Optimum hot working conditions based on the instability map are suggested for this material.
We present a method to implement probabilistic treatment planning of intensitymodulated radiation therapy using custom software plugins in a commercial treatment planning system. Our method avoids the definition of safety-margins by directly including the effect of geometrical uncertainties during optimization when objective functions are evaluated. Because the shape of the resulting dose distribution implicitly defines the robustness of the plan, the optimizer has much more flexibility than with a margin-based approach. We expect that this added flexibility helps to automatically strike a better balance between target coverage and dose reduction for surrounding healthy tissue, especially for cases where the planning target volume overlaps organs at risk. Prostate cancer treatment planning was chosen to develop our method, including a novel technique to include rotational uncertainties. Based on population statistics, translations and rotations are simulated independently following a markerbased IGRT correction strategy. The effects of random and systematic errors are incorporated by first blurring and then shifting the dose distribution with respect to the clinical target volume. For simplicity and efficiency, dose-shift invariance and a rigid-body approximation are assumed. Three prostate cases were replanned using our probabilistic objective functions. To compare clinical and probabilistic plans, an evaluation tool was used that explicitly incorporates geometric uncertainties using Monte-Carlo methods. The new plans achieved similar or better dose distributions than the original clinical plans in terms of expected target coverage and rectum wall sparing. Plan optimization times were only about a factor of two higher than in the original clinical system. In conclusion, we have developed a practical planning tool that enables marginless probability-based treatment planning with acceptable planning times, achieving the first system that is feasible for clinical implementation.
The fractional quantized Hall state at the filling factor ν = 5/2 is of special interest due to its possible application for quantum computing. Here we report on the optimization of growth parameters that allowed us to produce twodimensional electron gases (2DEGs) with a 5/2 gap energy up to 135 mK. We concentrated on optimizing the molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) growth to provide high 5/2 gap energies in 'as-grown' samples, without the need to enhance the 2DEGs properties by illumination or gating techniques. Our findings allow us to analyse the impact of doping in narrow quantum wells with respect to conventional DX-doping in Al x Ga 1-x As. The impact of the setback distance between doping layer and 2DEG was investigated as well. Additionally, we found a considerable increase in gap energy by reducing the amount of background impurities. To this end growth techniques like temperature reductions for substrate and effusion cells and the reduction of the Al mole fraction in the 2DEG region were applied.
The critical state stability against flux jumps in hard superconductors is considered by means of the WKBJ method. The universal stability criterion for an arbitrary critical state model is obtained.
We investigate protocols for generating a state t-design by using a fixed separable initial state and a diagonal-unitary t-design in the computational basis, which is a t-design of an ensemble of diagonal unitary matrices with random phases as their eigenvalues. We first show that a diagonal-unitary t-design generates a ( ) O 1 2 N -approximate state t-design, where N is the number of qubits. We then discuss a way of improving the degree of approximation by exploiting non-diagonal gates after applying a diagonal-unitary t-design. We also show that it is necessary and sufficient to use ( ) O t log 2 -qubit gates with random phases to generate a diagonal-unitary t-design by diagonal quantum circuits, and that each multi-qubit diagonal gate can be replaced by a sequence of multi-qubit controlled-phase-type gates with discrete-valued random phases. Finally, we analyze the number of gates for implementing a diagonal-unitary tdesign by non-diagonal two-and one-qubit gates. Our results provide a concrete application of diagonal quantum circuits in quantum informational tasks.
Linewidth enhancement factors (LEFs) of the transverse electric mode and the transverse magnetic mode in bulk semiconductor optical amplifiers are measured using the nonlinear optical loop mirror method and the principal state of polarization vector method. The polarization dependence of LEFs plays an important role in the nonlinear polarization rotation. The relationship between the polarization-dependence of LEFs and nonlinear polarization rotation in the Stokes space is demonstrated.
The drop analyser, also termed the tensiograph, is an optical fibre-based instrument system for monitoring liquids. A comprehensive assessment of the drop analyser used as a UV-visible spectrophotometer has been undertaken employing both experimental and theoretical studies. A model of the tensiograph signal (tensiotrace) has been developed using a ray-tracing approach to accurately predict the form of the tensiotrace as an aid to drop spectroscopy. An analytical equation is derived for quantitative drop spectroscopy and the form of the equation has been experimentally tested. The equation applies to both the case of a growing drop and the situation in which the drop volume is held stationary. Measurements on both stationary and moving drops are of practical value. Modelling has been used to compute the average path length of the coupled light in the drop to give a result that compares favourably with values obtained from experimental measurements. An optimized method has been identified for quantitative drop spectroscopy measurements. Results from UV-visible studies on both pollutants in water and pharmaceuticals demonstrate the utility of this approach. Two key matters relating to the practicalities of drop spectroscopy are then discussed. Some experimental studies have been made to ascertain the practical limit in analyte concentration above which variations in transmitted light from the drop shape variations result. Here, tabulated information on a representative range of liquid types has been provided as a guide to optimized spectroscopic drop analysis. Secondly, the handling of micro-volume
Single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond coupled to neighboring nuclear spins are promising candidates for room-temperature applications in quantum information processing, quantum sensing and metrology. Here we report on a systematic density functional theory simulation of hyperfine coupling of the electronic spin of the NV center to individual 13 C nuclear spins arbitrarily disposed in the H-terminated C 291 [NV] -H 172 cluster hosting the NV center. For the 'families' of equivalent positions of the 13 C atom in diamond lattices around the NV center we calculated hyperfine characteristics. For the first time the data are given for a system where the 13 C atom is located on the NV center symmetry axis. Electron paramagnetic resonance transitions in the coupled electron-nuclear spin system 14 NV-13 C are analyzed as a function of the external magnetic field. Previously reported experimental data from Dréau et al (2012 Phys. Rev. B 85 134107) are described using simulated hyperfine coupling parameters.
The proof of theorem 6(a) is incorrect, although the monogamy of steering result + ⩽ π
In this study, the propagation characteristics of a pure shear-horizontal-type surface acoustic wave on rotated Y-cut 90 X propagation langasite (at Euler angles of (0 , , 90 )) with a high-density thin film, such as a gold (Au) film or a tantalum pentoxide (Ta 2 O 5 ) dielectric film, are investigated. The theoretical analysis showed that, by loading with these films, coupling factor increases to about 1.0% for a certain condition. In fact, the measured coupling factors for ¼ 20 were 0.80% and 0.61%, for the samples with a Au film thickness of 0.015 wavelength () and a Ta 2 O 5 film thickness of 0.047 , respectively. For both films, the measured frequency shifts in the temperature change for ¼ 20 showed that a temperature characteristic with a zero temperature coefficient of delay in the same as the ST-90 X quartz with a free surface can be obtained by appropriately choosing the film thickness.
We present magnetisation measurements on powders of BizSrz(Cal. R , ) C U ~O ~+ ~ (R = Y,Gd). The observed magnetic relaxations and the field dependence o? the pinning force have been described in terms of a thermally activated flux-creep model without the need to consider phase transitions of the vortex system. We have found that the intra-grain J, decreases rapidly with rare earth or Y substitution. Even in the concentration range for which T, remains constant, J, decreases: J,(x=O)/J,(x=.32) = 5.7.
We study flocking in one dimension, introducing a lattice model in which particles can move either left or right. We find that the model exhibits a continuous non-equilibrium phase transition from a condensed phase, in which a single 'flock' contains a finite fraction of the particles, to a homogeneous phase; we study the transition using numerical finite-size scaling. Surprisingly, in the condensed phase the steady state is alternating, with the mean direction of motion of particles reversing stochastically on a timescale proportional to the logarithm of the system size. We present a simple argument to explain this logarithmic dependence. We argue that the reversals are essential to the survival of the condensate. Thus, the discrete directional symmetry is not spontaneously broken.
The estimation of high dimensional quantum states is an important statistical problem arising in current quantum technology applications. A key example is the tomography of multiple ions states, employed in the validation of state preparation in ion trap experiments (Häffner et al 2005 Nature 438 643). Since full tomography becomes unfeasible even for a small number of ions, there is a need to investigate lower dimensional statistical models which capture prior information about the state, and to devise estimation methods tailored to such models. In this paper we propose several new methods aimed at the efficient estimation of low rank states and analyse their performance for multiple ions tomography. All methods consist in first computing the least squares estimator, followed by its truncation to an appropriately chosen smaller rank. The latter is done by setting eigenvalues below a certain 'noise level' to zero, while keeping the rest unchanged, or normalizing them appropriately. We show that (up to logarithmic factors in the space dimension) the mean square error of the resulting estimators scales as • r d N where r is the rank, = d 2 k is the dimension of the Hilbert space, and N is the number of quantum samples. Furthermore we establish a lower bound for the asymptotic minimax risk which shows that the above scaling is optimal. The performance of the estimators is analysed in an extensive simulations study, with emphasis on the dependence on the state rank, and the number of measurement repetitions. We find that all estimators perform significantly better than the least squares, with the 'physical estimator' (which is a bona fide density matrix) slightly outperforming the other estimators.
When the level separation of a qubit is modulated periodically across an avoided crossing, tunneling to the excited state-and consequently Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interference-can occur. The types of modulation studied so far correspond to a continuous change of the level separation. Here we study periodic latching modulation, in which the level separation is switched abruptly between two values and is kept constant otherwise. In this case, the conventional approach based on the asymptotic Landau-Zener formula for transition probabilities is not applicable. We develop a novel adiabaticimpulse model for the evolution of the system and derive the resonance conditions. Additionally, we derive analytical results based on the rotating-wave approximation (RWA). The adiabatic-impulse model and the RWA results are compared with those of a full numerical simulation. These theoretical predictions are tested in an experimental setup consisting of a transmon whose flux bias is modulated with a square wave form. A rich spectrum is observed, with distinctive features correspoding to two regimes: slow-modulation and fast-modulation. These experimental results are shown to be in very good agreement with the theoretical models. Also, differences with respect to the well known case of sinusoidal modulation are discussed, both theoretically and experimentally.
We noted an error in the integrand in equation ( 
Understanding the role of correlations in quantum systems is both a fundamental challenge as well as of high practical relevance for the control of multi-particle quantum systems. Whereas a lot of research has been devoted to study the various types of correlations that can be present in the states of quantum systems, in this work we introduce a general and rigorous method to quantify the amount of correlations in the dynamics of quantum systems. Using a resource-theoretical approach, we introduce a suitable quantifier and characterize the properties of correlated dynamics. Furthermore, we benchmark our method by applying it to the paradigmatic case of two atoms weakly coupled to the electromagnetic radiation field, and illustrate its potential use to detect and assess spatial noise correlations in quantum computing architectures.
In models with the fundamental gravity scale in the TeV range, early cosmology is quite different from the standard picture, because the universe must have arisen at a much lower temperature and the electroweak symmetry was probably never restored. In this context, baryogenesis appears to be problematic: if the physics involved is essentially that of the standard model, 'conventional' non-conserving baryon number processes are completely negligible at such low temperatures. In this paper we show that the observed matter-antimatter asymmetry of the universe may be generated by gravitational decay of TeV mass particles: such objects can be out of equilibrium after inflation and, if their mass is of the same order of magnitude as the true quantum gravity scale, they can quickly decay through a black hole intermediate state, violating global symmetries, in particular, baryon number. In this context, we take advantage of the fact that the 'Sakharov conditions' for baryogenesis can be more easily satisfied with a low fundamental scale of gravity.
Nuclear spin registers in the vicinity of electron spins in solid state systems offer a powerful resource to address the challenge of scalability in quantum architectures. We investigate here the properties of 29 Si nuclear spins surrounding donor atoms in silicon, and consider the use of such spins, combined with the donor nuclear spin, as a quantum register coupled to the donor electron spin. We find the coherence of the nearby 29 Si nuclear spins is effectively protected by the presence of the donor electron spin, leading to coherence times in the second timescale-over two orders of magnitude greater than the coherence times in bulk silicon. We theoretically investigate the use of such a register for quantum error correction (QEC), including methods to protect nuclear spins from the ionisation/neutralisation of the donor, which is necessary for the re-initialisation of the ancillae qubits. This provides a route for multi-round QEC using donors in silicon.
In our article [1], we claimed to have given the first example of a facet-defining Bell inequality where a genuine positive-operator-valued measure (POVM) is relevant. Specifically, we claimed that any quantum realization of the maximal quantum violation of the Bell inequality 12 max  in the (minimal) qubit subspace necessarily requires the implementation of a genuine, nonprojective POVM. Recently, it has been brought to our attention by Armin Tavakoli that the maximal quantum violation of this Bell inequality can also be achieved using projective measurements.
The BB84 quantum key distribution protocol is semi device independent in the sense that it can be shown to be secure if just one of the users' devices is restricted to a qubit Hilbert space. Here, we derive an analytic lower bound on the asymptotic secret key rate for the entanglement-based version of BB84 assuming only that one of the users performs unknown qubit POVMs. The result holds against the class of collective attacks and reduces to the well known Shor-Preskill key rate for correlations corresponding to the ideal BB84 correlations mixed with any amount of random noise.
Ultracold few fermionic atoms in needle-shaped double wells: spin chains and resonating spin clusters from microscopic Hamiltonians emulated via antiferromagnetic Heisenberg and t-J models
We demonstrate storage and manipulation of one qubit encoded into a decoherence-free subspace (DFS) of two nuclear spins using liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance techniques. The DFS is spanned by states that are unaffected by arbitrary collective phase noise. Encoding and decoding procedures reversibly map an arbitrary qubit state from a single data spin to the DFS and back. The implementation demonstrates the robustness of the DFS memory against engineered dephasing with arbitrary strength as well as a substantial increase in the amount of quantum information retained, relative to an un-encoded qubit, under both engineered and natural noise processes. In addition, a universal set of logical manipulations over the encoded qubit is also realized. Although intrinsic limitations prevent maintenance of full noise tolerance during quantum gates, we show how the use of dynamical control methods at the encoded level can ensure that computation is protected with finite distance. We demonstrate noise-tolerant control over a DFS qubit in the presence of engineered phase noise significantly stronger than observed from natural noise sources.
We study the internal dynamics of bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. Within the regime in which the atomic crystal is a Mott insulator with one atom per well, the atoms behave as localized spins which interact according to some spin Hamiltonian. The type of Hamiltonian (Heisenberg, Ising), and the sign of interactions may be tuned by changing the properties of the optical lattice, or applying external magnetic fields. When, on the other hand, the number of atoms per lattice site is unknown, we can still use the bosons to perform general quantum computation.
We develop an abstract way of defining linear-optics networks designed to perform quantum information tasks such as quantum gates. We will be mainly concerned with the non-linear sign shift (NSS) gate, but it will become obvious that all other gates can be treated in a similar manner. The abstract scheme is extremely well suited for analytical as well as numerical investigations since it reduces the number of parameters for a general setting. With that, we show numerically and partially analytically for a wide class of states that the success probability of generating a NSS gate does not exceed 1/4, which to our knowledge is the strongest bound to date.
The Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) dip has played an important role in recent linear optics experiments. It is crucial for quantum computing with photons and can be used to characterize the quality of single photon sources and linear optics setups. In this paper, we consider generalized HOM experiments with N bosons or fermions passing simultaneously, i.e. within their coherence time, through a symmetric Bell multiport beam splitter. It is shown that for an even number of bosons, the HOM dip occurs naturally in the coincidence detection in the output ports. In contrast, fermions always leave the setup separately, exhibiting perfect coincidence detection. Our results can be used to verify or employ the quantum statistics of particles experimentally.
We construct the local Hamiltonian description of the Chern-Simons theory with discrete non-Abelian gauge group on a lattice. We show that the theory is fully determined by the phase factors associated with gauge transformations and classify all possible non-equivalent phase factors. We also construct the gauge invariant electric-field operators that move fluxons around and create/anihilate them. We compute the resulting braiding properties of the fluxons. We apply our general results to the simplest class of non-Abelian groups, the dihedral groups D n .
We investigate the influence of a dipole interaction with a classical radiation field on a qubit during a continuous change of a control parameter. In particular, we explore the non-adiabatic transitions that occur when the qubit is swept with linear speed through resonances with the time-dependent interaction. Two classic problems come together in this model: the Landau-Zener (LZ) and the Rabi problem. The probability of LZ transitions now depends sensitively on the amplitude, the frequency and the phase of the Rabi interaction. The influence of the static phase turns out to be particularly strong, since this parameter controls the time-reversal symmetry of the Hamiltonian. In the limits of large and small frequencies, analytical results obtained within a rotatingwave approximation compare favourably with a numerically exact solution. We discuss physical realizations in microwave optics, quantum dots and molecular nanomagnets.
We point out that for an arbitrary number of identical particles, each defined on a Hilbert space of arbitrary dimension, there exists a whole ladder of relations of complementarity between certain local and nonlocal measurements corresponding to every conceivable grouping of the particles, e.g., the more accurately we can know (by a measurement) some joint property of three qubits (projecting the state onto a tripartite-entangled state), the less accurate some other property, local to the three qubits, becomes. We investigate the relation between these complementarity relations and a similar relation based on interference visibilities. We also show that the complementarity relations are particularly tight for particles defined on prime dimensional Hilbert spaces.
An experimental investigation has been conducted to obtain electrode surface temperature profiles for corona discharges. The results show that a slight temperature increase occurs near the edge of the cylindrical hollow electrodes.
We have demonstrated a high-power widely tunable sampled grating (SG) DBR laser integrated monolithically with optical semiconductor amplifier (SOA), using planar buried heterostructure (PBH). The measured threshold current was 5 mA on average with 60 chips randomly selected which is lowest among the typical average values. Fiber-coupled output power was 12.4 dBm and the output power variation was $1 dB for the whole tuning range. [
1/f noise, the major source of dephasing in Josephson qubits, may be produced by an ensemble of two-level systems. Depending on the statistical properties of their distribution, the noise distribution can be Gaussian or non-Gaussian. The latter situation is realized, for instance, when the distribution of coupling strengths has a slowly decaying power-law tail. In this regime, questions of self-averaging and sample-to-sample fluctuations become crucial. We study the dephasing process for a class of distribution functions and analyse the self-averaging properties of the results.
A simplified analysis of the evaluation of the dielectric parameters of materials at microwave frequencies using a cavity perturbation technique employing the EOIO mode is presented. Expressions for the dielectric constant E' and dielectric loss E" are obtained from a single approach. The present analysis reveals the dependence of the dielectric parameters upon the ratio of the specimen and cavity dimensions. The final equations for E' and E" are in terms of experimentally measurable quantities and the evaluation involves only the use of the tables for Bessel functions Yo(z), Yl(z), Jo(z) and Jl(z) for complex arguments. The results are in very good agreement with those reported in the literature.
Electron spin resonance has been "studied in NiTiF,. 6H,O, NiSnF,. 6H,O and NiSnCI,. 6H,O down to liquid helium temperatures, and spin Hamiltonian and exchange coupling parameters have been derived. A structural phase change with thermal hysteresis occurs in NiTiF,.6H20 at Tc (cooling) FZ 121 K causing the ESR signal to disappear. Dilution with Zn increases YC.
We recently reported a method for measuring the microwave surface resistance (R s ) of large-area HTS films. The device was formed from a sapphire quasi-optical dielectric resonator (QDR) with conducting end-plates (CEP). In the present work, R s -measurement procedures and data obtained under different conditions are systematically analysed. The accuracy and the sensitivity of the R s -measurement are analysed. The results of the study clearly demonstrate that the proposed technique provides a sensitivity which is increased by at least one order in comparison with the most accurate cavity resonator techniques in the millimetre wave range. In addition, the first experimental results on the temperature dependence of the QDR resonances with different CEP (HTS and/or Cu) are discussed in terms of a surface reactance (X s ) measurement.
The spanwise growth of a turbulent spot in plane Couette flow is experimentally analysed by determining the flow field in the region between the spot and the undisturbed surrounding flow. Both the streamwise and spanwise velocity components were measured, and show that the spot forces fluid outward, giving rise to a spanwise velocity component. The resulting velocity profile has an inflectional character and the existence of spanwise travelling waves was verified. The wave velocity was determined and found to be in good agreement with numerical simulations as well as flow visualisation results, earlier reported in the literature.
Electron collisions with the BF + molecular ion are studied using the framework of the diatomic version of the UK molecular R-matrix codes. A configuration-interaction calculation is performed for BF + to obtain potential energy curves and target properties for 14 lowest doublet and quartet states. Scattering calculations are performed which yield resonance parameters and excitation cross sections in the energy range 0-20 eV. Cross sections for rotational excitations and an approximate calculation for the electron impact dissociation cross section for BF + are also presented.
Two diffractometers (linear spectrometers) are described, for spatial filtering of the moire fringes formed
The process by which humans name objects is highly flexible and dynamic. This is particularly true of group work where common names for objects may be gradually established through the processes of proposal, translation and adoption. This paper introduces a naming model, for use mostly by humans, which supports this process of group naming and specifically allows names to be ambiguous and changeable. The model defines techniques for resolving names, translating names between different group members and proposing common names for objects within a group. The paper also discusses how individual naming contexts which support these facilities could be federated into a structured namespace and how the process of flexible name resolution can therefore be extended to large scale distributed environments. The resulting functionality contrasts strongly with existing, often hierarchical, naming models which deliberately attempt to reduce ambiguity of names and which provide minimal support for managing name changes. The intention is that the proposed naming model could be layered on top of existing naming services in order to provide additional human and group oriented support for naming.
Films of tin and the volatile element selenium, composed in an arbitrary ratio, are produced with high reproducibility by the vacuum deposition technique which has been newly developed. This method comprises a two stepped-evaporation from the mother alloy containing selenium dissolved in tin. The mechanism of this method is investigated experimentally and theoretically, and the process of the first and second step of evaporation is discussed.
Thin films of CaBi 4 Ti 4 O 15 and SrBi 4 Ti 4 O 15 with preferential crystal orientation were prepared by the chemical solution deposition (CSD) technique on a (100)LaNiO 3 /(111)Pt/(100)Si substrate. The films consisted of a crystalline phase of bismuth-layer-structured dielectric (BLSDs). The (00l) planes of a BLSD crystal were preferentially oriented to the surface of the (100)LaNiO 3 /(111)Pt/(100)Si substrate, which is ascribed to the lattice matching between pseudo perovskite blocks in the BLSD crystal and the (100)LaNiO 3 plane with a perovskite structure. Frequent heat treatment for crystallization, i.e., once after each coating, also enhanced the degree of crystallinity and crystal orientation of the BLSD films. The dielectric constants (" r ) of SrBi 4 Ti 4 O 15 and CaBi 4 Ti 4 O 15 thin films were approximately 250 at room temperature. The " r values of both films increased with ambient temperature. The variations in capacitance in the temperature range from 25 to 200 C were approximately 3 and 5% respectively, which were significantly smaller than that in the (Ba,Sr)TiO 3 thin film.
Intense, few-femtosecond pulse technology has enabled studies of the fastest vibrational relaxation processes. The hydrogen group vibrations can be imaged and manipulated using intense infrared pulses. Through numerical simulation, we demonstrate an example of ultrafast coherent control that could be effected with current experimental facilities, and observed using high-resolution time-of-flight spectroscopy. The proposal is a pump-probe-type technique to manipulate the D + 2 ion with ultrashort pulse sequences. The simulations presented show that vibrational selection can be achieved through pulse delay. We find that the vibrational system can be purified to a two-level system thus realizing a vibrational qubit. A novel scheme for the selective transfer of population between these two levels, based on a Raman process and conditioned upon the delay time of a second control-pulse is outlined, and may enable quantum encoding with this system.
Stückelberg interferometry describes the interference of two strongly coupled modes during a double passage through an avoided energy level crossing. In this work, we investigate finite-time effects in Stückelberg interferometry and discuss the exact analytical solution of the double passage Stückelberg problem by expanding the finite-time solution of the Landau-Zener problem. Approximating the return probability amplitudes of the double passage in distinct limits reveals uncharted parameter regimes of Stückelberg interferometry where finite-time effects affect the coherent exchange of energy. We find the long-time limit of the exact solution to formally coincide with the well-established adiabatic impulse model which is, to the best of our knowledge, the only regime of Stückelberg interferometry reported so far. Experimentally, we study all predicted regimes using a purely classical, strongly coupled nanomechanical two-mode system of high quality factor. The classical two-mode system consists of the in-plane and out-of-plane fundamental flexural mode of a high stress silicon nitride string resonator, coupled via electric gradient fields. We exploit our experimental and theoretical findings by studying the onset of Stückelberg interference in dependence of the characteristic system control parameters and obtain characteristic excitation oscillations between the two modes even without the explicit need of traversing the avoided crossing. The presented findings are not limited to classical mechanical two-mode systems but can be applied to every strongly coupled (quantum) two-level system, for example a spin-1/2 system or superconducting qubit.
Josephson circuits provide a realistic physical setup where the light-matter fine structure constant can become of order one, allowing to reach a regime dominated by non-perturbative effects beyond standard quantum optics. Simple processes, such as spontaneous emission, thus acquire a many-body character, that can be tackled using a new description of the time-dependent state vector in terms of quantum-superposed coherent states. We find that spontaneous atomic decay at ultrastrong coupling leads to the emission of spectrally broad Schrödinger cats rather than of monochromatic single photons. These cats states remain partially entangled with the emitter at intermediate stages of the dynamics, even after emission, due to a large separation in time scales between fast energy relaxation and exponentially slow decoherence. Once decoherence of the qubit is finally established, quantum information is completely transfered to the state of the emitted cat.
Quantum spin Hall (QSH) effect, a fundamentally new quantum state of matter and topological phase transitions are characteristics of a kind of electronic material, popularly referred to as topological insulators (TIs). TIs are similar to ordinary insulator in terms of their bulk bandgap, but have gapless conducting edge-states that are topologically protected. These edge-states are facilitated by the timereversal symmetry and they are robust against nonmagnetic impurity scattering. Recently, the quest for new materials exhibiting non-trivial topological state of matter has been of great research interest, as TIs find applications in new electronics and spintronics and quantum-computing devices. Here, we propose and demonstrate as a proof-of-concept that QSH effect and topological phase transitions can be realized in --
The fully anisotropic two-leg spin-1 2 XXZ ladder model is studied in terms of an algorithm based on the tensor network (TN) representation of quantum many-body states as an adaptation of projected entangled pair states to the geometry of translationally invariant infinite-size quantum spin ladders.
Single NV centers in diamond coupled by hyperfine interaction (hfi) to neighboring 13 C nuclear spins are now widely used in emerging quantum technologies as elements of quantum memory adjusted to a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center electron spin qubit. For nuclear spins with low flip-flop rate, single shot readout was demonstrated under ambient conditions. Here we report on a systematic search for such stable NV-13 C systems using density functional theory to simulate the hfi and spatial characteristics of all possible NV-13 C complexes in the H-terminated cluster C 510 [NV] -H 252 hosting the NV center. Along with the expected stable 'NV-axial-13 C' systems wherein the 13 C nuclear spin is located on the NV axis, we found for the first time new families of positions for the 13 C nuclear spin exhibiting negligible hfi-induced flipping rates due to near-symmetric local spin density distribution. Spatially, these positions are located in the diamond bilayer passing through the vacancy of the NV center and being perpendicular to the NV axis. Analysis of available publications showed that, apparently, some of the predicted non-axial near-stable NV-13 C systems have already been observed experimentally. A special experiment performed on one of these systems confirmed the prediction made.
We present a novel approach for analytically reducing a family of time-dependent multi-state quantum control problems to two-state systems. The presented method translates between ( ) ( ) SU SU 2 2 related n 2 -state systems and two-state systems, such that the former undergo complete population inversion (CPI) if and only if the latter reach specific states. For even n, the method translates any two-state CPI scheme to a family of CPI schemes in n 2 -state systems. In particular, facilitating CPI in a four-state system via real time-dependent nearest-neighbors couplings is reduced to facilitating CPI in a two-level system. Furthermore, we show that the method can be used for operator control, and provide conditions for producing several universal gates for quantum computation as an example. In addition, we indicate a basis for utilizing the method in optimal control problems.
Superconducting circuits rank among some of the most interesting architectures for the implementation of quantum information processing devices. The recently proposed 0-π qubit [Brooks et al., Phys. Rev. A 87, 52306 (2013)] promises increased protection from spontaneous relaxation and dephasing. In this paper we present a detailed theoretical study of the coherence properties of the 0-π device, investigate relevant decoherence channels, and show estimates for achievable coherence times in multiple parameter regimes. In our analysis, we include disorder in circuit parameters, which results in the coupling of the qubit to a low-energy, spurious harmonic mode. We analyze the effects of such coupling on decoherence, in particular dephasing due to photon shot noise, and outline how such a noise channel can be mitigated by appropriate parameter choices. In the end we find that the 0-π qubit performs well and may become an attractive candidate for the implementation of the next-generation superconducting devices for uses in quantum computing and information.
Nano-structures with giant magnetic anisotropy energies (MAE) are desired in designing miniaturized magnetic storage and quantum computing devices. Previous works focused mainly on materials or elements with d electrons. Here, by taking Bi-X(X=In, Tl, Ge, Sn, Pb) adsorbed on nitrogenized divacancy of graphene and Bi atom adsorbed on MgO(100) as examples, through ab initio and model calculations, we propose that special p-element dimers and single-adatoms on symmetry-matched substrates possess giant atomic MAE of 72-200 meV, and has room temperature structural stability. The huge MAE originates from the porbital degeneracy around the Fermi level in a symmetry-matched surface ligand field and the lift of this degeneracy when spin-orbit interaction (SOI) is taken into account. Especially, we developed a simplified quantum mechanical model for the design principles of giant MAE of supported magnetic adatoms and dimers. Thus, our discoveries and mechanisms provide a new paradigm to design giant atomic MAE of p electrons in supported nanostructures.
We report on the coupling of the emission from a single europium-doped nanocrystal to a fiber-based microcavity under cryogenic conditions. As a first step, we study the properties of nanocrystals that are relevant for cavity experiments and show that embedding them in a dielectric thin film can significantly reduce scattering loss and increase the light-matter coupling strength for dopant ions. The latter is supported by the observation of a fluorescence lifetime reduction, which is explained by an increased local field strength. We then couple an isolated nanocrystal to an optical microcavity, determine its size and ion number, and perform cavity-enhanced spectroscopy by resonantly coupling a cavity mode to a selected transition. We measure the inhomogeneous linewidth of the coherent D F 5 0 7 0 -transition and find a value that agrees with the linewidth in bulk crystals, evidencing a high crystal quality. We detect the fluorescence from an ensemble of few ions in the regime of power broadening and observe an increased fluorescence rate consistent with Purcell enhancement. The results represent an important step towards the efficient readout of single rare earth ions with excellent optical and spin coherence properties, which is promising for applications in quantum communication and distributed quantum computation.
Kitaev's 0-π qubit encodes quantum information in two protected, near-degenerate states of a superconducting quantum circuit. In a recent work, we have shown that the coherence times of a realistic 0-π device can surpass that of today's best superconducting qubits (Groszkowski et al 2018 New J. Phys. 20 043053). Here we address controllability of the 0-π qubit. Specifically, we investigate the potential for dispersive control and readout, and introduce a new, fast and high-fidelity singlequbit gate that can interpolate smoothly between logical X and Z. We characterize the action of this gate using a multi-level treatment of the device, and analyze the impact of circuit-element disorder and deviations in control and circuit parameters from their optimal values. Furthermore, we propose a cooling scheme to decrease the photon shot-noise dephasing rate, which we previously found to limit the coherence times of 0-π devices within reach of current experiments. Using this approach, we predict coherence time enhancements between one and three orders of magnitude, depending on parameter regime.
One important building block for future integrated nanophotonic devices is the scalable on-chip interfacing of single photon emi ers and quantum memories with single optical modes. Here we present the deterministic integration of a single solid-state qubit, the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center, with a photonic platform consisting exclusively of SiO 2 grown thermally on a Si substrate. e platform stands out by its ultra-low uorescence and the ability to produce various passive structures such as high-Q microresonators and mode-size converters. By numerical analysis an optimal structure for the e cient coupling of a dipole emi er to the guided mode could be determined. Experimentally, the integration of a preselected NV emi er was performed with an atomic force microscope and the on-chip excitation of the quantum emi er as well as the coupling of single photons to the guided mode of the integrated structure could be demonstrated. Our approach shows the potential of this platform as a robust nanoscale interface of on-chip photonic structures with solid-state qubits.
Fast entangling quantum gates can significantly enhance the performance of a trapped-ion quantum computer. In pursuit of implementing a fast two-qubit gate, we investigate the coherent excitation of a 40 Ca + ion with a train of picosecond pulses resonant to the 4S 1/2 ↔ 4P 3/2 transition. The optical pulse train is derived from a mode-locked, stabilized optical frequency comb. We implement two techniques to characterize the pulse-ion interaction and show how all requirements can be met for an implementation of a fast phase gate operation.
Deep convolutional neural networks have made significant progress in image denoising. However, in most cases, denoising methods using a single-stream structure with a single kernel size do not perform so well in integrating complementary contextual information; owing to the lack of this type of information, they may fail to reconstruct fine textures and patterns. To address this problem, we propose a multi-scale gated fusion network (MGFN) for image denoising, which learns direct end-to-end mappings from corrupted images to clean images. Our proposed network consists of several multi-scale mutuallygated (MM) blocks. In each MM block, we incorporate dilated convolution into a merge-and-run (MR) module to exploit multi-scale features in an effective way and further recognize useful features by filtration via a gating mechanism. Moreover, we propose a simple but effective loss function named dropout-loss to train the network. The extensive experiments on benchmark datasets show that our proposed method can well recover textures, yielding favorable performance against other state-of-the-art methods.
We report the design of 12-LP-mode (21-spatial-mode) fiber with a low differential mode group delay (DMGD), a large effective area, and a low bending loss that is adapted to a mode-division-multiplexing system over the C+L band. Based on the designed fiber parameters, we characterize the few-mode fiber (FMF) with the DMGD, an effective area, and a bending loss. Over the C+L band, the maximum DMGD is 0.106 ps/m, and the effective area is in the range of 150∼485 μm 2 . The bending loss of the designed FMF reduces to zero when the bending radius is greater than 9 mm, and the DMGD is below 0.0413 ps/m at the wavelength of 1550 nm.
The study conveys an idea to enhance the osseointegration of titanium implant (Ti) through modulating macrophages M2 polarization. The ~ 100 nm spherical mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSN) that compromised of ~ 4-nm-diameter nanotunnels were synthesized by the conventional "sol-gel" method, into which the dexamethasone (DEX) was loaded (DEX@ MSN). The DEX@MSN could consistently release DEX and showed favorable cytocompatibility in RAW264.7 cells. The arginase-1 expression, a specific marker for macrophages M2 polarization, was also enhanced by DEX@MSN treatment. Then, the Ti was pre-treated with anodization under 5 V to generate the titania nanotubes with ~ 30 nm diameter (NT-30) and the DEX@MSN was introduced onto NT-30 surface via electrophoretic deposition, with the aid of chitosan. After optimizing the deposition parameters, the supernatants of RAW264.7 from the decorated implant surface could significantly promote the osteogenic differentiation of murine primary bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells. These findings demonstrate that delivery of DEX from implant surface can modulate the macrophages M2 polarization and result in favorable osteogenesis.
Street quality is critical to urban sustainability. Well-designed streets encourage walking behaviour and attract public activities, thus advancing the sustainability of a city as a whole. Currently, most quantificational analyses of street quality are based on two dimensional maps, using network algorithms and economic theories to calculate accessibility and land value or to account for a series of elements such as number of trees and number of courtyards in order to audit quality scores. The analysis from three dimensional models and human-centred views is rarely utilized but could offer new possibilities to provide urban planners and designers with analytical feedback on the built environment and design process. This research explores ways to relate physical features with walking behaviour using Reid Ewing's Urban Design Tool to measure the street quality for walkability. It applies physical metrics from measuring parameters in 3D models based on the human's perspective and other building metrics from GIS data online to systematically audit street walkability. To validate this method, we take two separate studies. One is a case study to evaluate the street walkability of two districts in NYC from their 3D models and GIS data and to visualize the scores. The result from digital models and real environment are similar which indicates the feasibility of applying this method in urban scale. The other is a pilot study asking a group of students (N = 8) to evaluate street walkability of 3D models, telling them the scores calculated by this method, to explore how the scores influence their evaluations. This study illustrates the possibility to quantify the evaluation of street quality for walkability using Urban Design Tool in 3D models to inform urban designer's evaluation in street scale during the design process.
A solar-driven V 3+/2+ (aq,H 2 SO 4 )|KOH(aq) cell, consisting of a carbon-cloth cathode in 2.0 M H 2 SO 4 (aq) with 0.36 M V 2 (SO 4 ) 3 (pH -0.16), a Ni mesh anode in 2.5 M KOH(aq) (pH 14.21) for the oxygenevolution reaction (OER), and a bipolar membrane that sustained the pH differentials between the catholyte and anolyte, enabled water splitting with spatial and temporal decoupling of the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) from the OER and produced H 2 (g) locally under pressure upon demand. Over a range of potentials and charging depths, V 3+ was selectively reduced with >99.8% faradic efficiency. The V 2+ species produced in the catholyte was then passed subsequently on demand over a MoC x -based HER catalyst to produce H 2 (g) and regenerate V 3+ for subsequent reduction. Under a base hydrogen pressure of 1, 10, and 100 atm, the discharge efficiency of the V 3+ to hydrogen was 83%, 65.2%, and 59.8%, respectively. In conjunction with a solar tracker and a photovoltaic device, the V 3+/2+ (aq,H 2 SO 4 )|KOH(aq) cell was charged outdoors under sunlight and discharged at night with a daily averaged diurnal solar-to-hydrogen (STH) energy conversion efficiency of 3.7% and a STH conversion efficiency of 5.8% during daylight operation.
Proteins and polysaccharides are key food ingredients, and therefore, it is important to understand how proteins and polysaccharides interact with each other, since they play significant roles in controlling the structure and texture of food products. Whey proteins as ingredients play a major role in determining sensorial properties via thickening, gelling, emulsifying, foaming texturizing, and water holding abilities 
Systematic investigation of a combining electrode strategy for electrical capacitance tomography (ECT) is carried out. A configurable digital and analogue mixed ECT system using a combining electrode strategy is presented. Compared to the traditional ECT system, the presented system can be configured flexibly as the traditional ECT sensor mode and the combining electrode mode by connecting a number of electrodes as a combined electrode. In particular, the combining electrode mode is increasing the number of capacitance measurement data and the amelioration of sensitivity distribution. An image reconstruction framework is proposed by configuring the presented ECT system as the corresponding sensor mode adaptive to the permittivity distribution to be reconstructed, which includes the traditional ECT sensor mode, the symmetric combining electrode mode, the asymmetric combining electrode mode and the mixed combining electrode mode. Both simulation and experimental results show that image reconstructions with better quality and robustness to measurement noise can be obtained under the proposed adaptive image reconstruction framework by using the presented configurable ECT system.
Anomalous 3 He/ 4 He ratios in deuterium-loaded titanium samples are observed to be about 1-4×10 -1 , much greater than the values (≤10 -4 ) in natural objects. Control experiments with the deuterium-unloaded titanium sample and original industrial deuterium gas are also carried out, but no anomalous 3 He/ 4 He values are observed. In addition, anomalous tritium in deuterium-loaded titanium samples are also observed. To explain the excess 3 He and tritium in the deuterium-loaded titanium samples, it is required that the deuteron-induced nuclear reaction occurs in the samples at low temperature.
We present a measurement of the mean density profile of Ca ii gas around galaxies out to ∼200 kpc, traced by Fraunhofer's H & K absorption lines. The measurement is based on cross-correlating the positions of about one million foreground galaxies at z ∼ 0.1 and the flux decrements induced in the spectra of about 10 5 background quasars from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey. This technique allows us to trace the total amount of Ca ii absorption induced by the circumgalactic medium, including absorbers too weak to be detected in individual spectra. We can statistically measure Ca ii rest equivalent widths down to several mÅ, corresponding to column densities of about 5 × 10 10 cm -2 . We find that the Ca ii column density distribution follows N Ca ii ∼ r -1.4 p and the mean Ca ii mass in the halo within 200 kpc is ∼5 × 10 3 M , averaged over the foreground galaxy sample with median mass ∼10 10.3 M . This is about an order-of-magnitude larger than the Ca ii mass in the interstellar medium of the Milky Way, suggesting that more than 90% of Ca ii in the universe is in the circum-and inter-galactic environments. Our measurements indicate that the amount of Ca ii in halos is larger for galaxies with higher stellar mass and higher star formation rate. For edge-on galaxies we find Ca ii to be more concentrated along the minor axis, i.e., in the polar direction. This suggests that bipolar outflows induced by star formation must have played a significant role in producing Ca ii in galaxy halos.
The ellipsoidal mirror is an ideal soft X-ray focusing optic that enables achromatic and highly efficient focusing to a nanometer spot size; however, a high-quality surface is necessary for ideal focusing. Knowledge of the required figure accuracy is important for fabrication. In this paper, we analyze the effects of figure errors on the focusing performance through wave-optical calculations based on the Fresnel-Kirchhoff diffraction theory, assuming coherent soft X-rays. Figure errors are classified into three types from the viewpoint of manufacturing. The effect of the alignment error is also investigated. The analytical results quantitatively indicate criteria regarding figure accuracy, which are expected to be essential for the development of high-performance ellipsoidal soft X-ray focusing mirrors.
Naked-eye determinations of the visual range yield order-of-magnitude estimates of Avogadro's number, using an argument of Rayleigh. Alternatively, by looking through a cardboard tube, we can compare airlight and skylight and give another estimate of this number using the law of atmospheres.
The status of searches for physics beyond the Standard Model is reviewed, in the light of the data from the Large Hadron Collider runs at 7 and 8 TeV centre-of-mass energy.
A significant proportion of cancer patients is treated using MeV electron radiation. One of the measurement methods which is likely to furnish reliable dose values also under non-reference conditions is the dosimetry using alanine and read-out via electron spin resonance (ESR). The system has already proven to be suitable for QA purposes for modern radiotherapy involving megavoltage x-rays. In order to render the secondary standard measurement system of the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt based on alanine/ESR useable for dosimetry in radiotherapy, the dose-to-water (D W ) response of the dosemeter needs to be known for relevant radiation qualities. For MeV electrons, the D W response was determined using the Fricke primary standard of the Swiss Federal Office of Metrology. Since there were no citable detailed publications on the Swiss primary standard available, this measurement system is described in some detail. The experimental results for the D W response are compared to results of Monte Carlo simulations which model in detail the beams furnished by the electron accelerator as well as the geometry of the detectors. The agreement between experiment and simulation is very good, as well as the agreement with results published by the National Research Council of Canada which are based on a different primary standard. No significant dependence of the D W response was found in the range between 6 and 20 MeV. It is therefore suggested to use a unique correction factor k E for alanine for all MeV qualities of k E = 1.012 ± 0.010.
Taking advantage of a recent FORS2/VLT spectroscopic sample of extreme horizontal branch (EHB) stars in ω Cen, we isolate 38 spectra well suited for detailed atmospheric studies and determine their fundamental parameters (T eff , log g, and log N(He)/N(H)) using NLTE, metal line-blanketed models. We find that our targets can be divided into three groups: 6 stars are hot (T eff 45,000 K) H-rich subdwarf O stars, 7 stars are typical H-rich sdB stars (T eff 35,000 K), and the remaining 25 targets at intermediate effective temperatures are He-rich (log N(He)/N(H) -1.0) subdwarfs. Surprisingly, and quite interestingly, these He-rich hot subdwarfs in ω Cen cluster in a narrow temperature range (∼35,000 K to ∼40,000 K). We additionally measure the atmospheric carbon abundance and find a most interesting positive correlation between the carbon and helium atmospheric abundances. This correlation certainly bears the signature of diffusion processes-most likely gravitational settling impeded by stellar winds or internal turbulence-but also constrains possible formation scenarios proposed for EHB stars in ω Cen. For the He-rich objects in particular, the clear link between helium and carbon enhancement points toward a late hot flasher evolutionary history.
We study the self-gravitating stars with a linear equation of state, P = aρ, in AdS space, where a is a constant parameter. There exists a critical dimension, beyond which the stars are always stable with any central energy density; below which there exists a maximal mass configuration for a certain central energy density and when the central energy density continues to increase, the configuration becomes unstable. We find that the critical dimension depends on the parameter a, it runs from d = 11.1429 to 10.1291 as a varies from a = 0 to 1. The lowest integer dimension for a dynamically stable self-gravitating configuration should be d = 12 for any a ∈ [0, 1] rather than d = 11, the latter is the case of self-gravitating radiation configurations in AdS space.
We present a new method to achieve high-contrast images using segmented and/or on-axis telescopes. Our approach relies on using two sequential deformable mirrors (DMs) to compensate for the large amplitude excursions in the telescope aperture due to secondary support structures and/or segment gaps. In this configuration the parameter landscape of DM surfaces that yield high-contrast point-spread functions is not linear, and nonlinear methods are needed to find the true minimum in the optimization topology. We solve the highly nonlinear Monge-Ampere equation that is the fundamental equation describing the physics of phase-induced amplitude modulation. We determine the optimum configuration for our two sequential DM system and show that high-throughput and high-contrast solutions can be achieved using realistic surface deformations that are accessible using existing technologies. We name this process Active Compensation of Aperture Discontinuities (ACAD). We show that for geometries similar to the James Webb Space Telescope, ACAD can attain at least 10 -7 in contrast and an order of magnitude higher for both the future extremely large telescopes and on-axis architectures reminiscent of the Hubble Space Telescope. We show that the converging nonlinear mappings resulting from our DM shapes actually damp near-field diffraction artifacts in the vicinity of the discontinuities. Thus, ACAD actually lowers the chromatic ringing due to diffraction by segment gaps and struts while not amplifying the diffraction at the aperture edges beyond the Fresnel regime. This outer Fresnel ringing can be mitigated by properly designing the optical system. Consequently, ACAD is a true broadband solution to the problem of high-contrast imaging with segmented and/or on-axis apertures. We finally show that once the nonlinear solution is found, fine tuning with linear methods used in wavefront control can be applied to further contrast by another order of magnitude. Generally speaking, the ACAD technique can be used to significantly improve a broad class of telescope designs for a variety of problems.
We introduce a new motion encoding concept for the displacement vector in multifrequency magnetic resonance elastography (MRE). Selective spectral displacement projection (SDP)-MRE can be applied to a vibration spectrum composed of three frequencies and exploits the filter condition of MRE for selecting one frequency each per spatial motion encoding direction. The selected components are simultaneously encoded in the phase of the MR signal. Therefore, the total MR phase is represented by a sum of phase portions, each corresponding to a distinct spatial projection and vibration frequency. The individual components can be obtained by applying a Fouriertransform to the temporally resolved phase images. SDP-MRE reduces the number of temporally resolved MRE experiments for data acquisition by a factor of 3, while providing similar wave images as found using conventional monofrequency MRE.
We propose a scheme to engineer a non-local two-qubit phase gate between two remote quantum-dot spins. Along with one-qubit local operations, one can in principal perform various types of distributed quantum information processing. The scheme employs a photon with linearly polarisation interacting one after the other with two remote quantum-dot spins in cavities. Due to the optical spin selection rule, the photon obtains a Faraday rotation after the interaction process. By measuring the polarisation of the final output photon, a non-local two-qubit phase gate between the two remote quantum-dot spins is constituted. Our scheme may has very important applications in the distributed quantum information processing.
In this paper, we focus on the robust adaptive synchronization between two coupled chaotic neural networks with all the parameters unknown and time-varying delay. In order to increase the robustness of the two coupled neural networks, the key idea is that a sliding-mode-type controller is employed. Moreover, without the estimate values of the network unknown parameters taken as an updating object, a new updating object is introduced in the constructing of controller. Using the proposed controller, without any requirements for the boundedness, monotonicity and differentiability of activation functions, and symmetry of connections, the two coupled chaotic neural networks can achieve global robust synchronization no matter what their initial states are. Finally, the numerical simulation validates the effectiveness and feasibility of the proposed technique.
In the hole-doped, high-temperature superconducting cuprates, an intrinsic heterogeneity is found, from the early observations to recent data. Below optimum doping, the heterogeneity consists of dynamic metallic and, at low temperatures, superconducting regions in the form of clusters or stripes, which develop and decay as a function of time and location in the antiferromagnetic lattice. This behaviour is underlined by the interesting linear relation between the oxygen isotope shifts of the magnetic penetration depth and the critical temperature with a slope that is a factor 2 larger than expected for the homogeneous distribution of superfluid density. Allusion is also made to the Bose-Einstein condensation reported in structurally heterogeneous, polycrystalline polymer platelets as well as especially to the heterogeneous distribution of visible and dark matter in the Universe, which point to a change of paradigm in modern physics. perspective
We present a framework for analyzing luminescence regulation during quorum sensing in the bioluminescent bacterium Vibrio harveyi. Using a simplified model for signal transduction in the quorum sensing pathway, we identify key dimensionless parameters that control the system's response. These parameters are estimated using experimental data on luminescence phenotypes for different mutant strains. The corresponding model predictions are consistent with results from other experiments which did not serve as input for determining model parameters. Furthermore, the proposed framework leads to novel testable predictions for luminescence phenotypes and for responses of the network to different perturbations.
R&D activities on fusion reactor materials in Switzerland focus on (1) the development of advanced metallic materials for structural applications in plasma-facing (first wall, divertor) and breeding blanket components of the future fusion power reactors, in particular oxide dispersion strengthened reduced activation ferritic steels and tungsten-base materials, (2) the modelling of radiation damage and radiation effects and (3) small specimen test technology for the future International Fusion Materials Irradiation Facility. The main objectives, examples of recent results and future activities are described in the case of these three R&D areas.
We present calculations on the multiple ionization of argon at the photon energy 123 eV and pulse duration 50 fs. At that photon energy, it is possible to drive the two-photon resonant Auger transition 2p → 4p, whose lifetime is 5.5 fs, much shorter than the pulse duration. The excitation of a 2p electron to the 4p state thus creates a hole which decays by an Auger process. We have also included above-threshold ionization from the outer shells of the neutral and singly ionized species, which becomes significant at intensities of the order of ∼10 15 W cm -2 and higher. The populations of the various ionic species were obtained through the solution of the kinetic equations governing their production and decay during the pulse. The effect of the intensity distribution in the interaction volume has also been evaluated. We have further shown that doubly hollow ionic states of the type 3s 0 3p n with 2 n 6 are created, which can decay only via spontaneous emission, with lifetimes orders of magnitude longer than the pulse duration. These hollow-ion states can potentially serve as a starting point for a variety of experimental investigations on doubly excited states.
To realize the high selectivity of closed cracks, we propose a fundamental wave amplitude difference (FAD) method based on the threshold behavior of fundamental waves caused by the contact vibration of closed cracks. This is realized by the subtraction of a fundamental array (FA) image at a small input amplitude multiplied by the amplification factor from that at a large input amplitude. The formulation clarified that FAD can selectively image closed cracks while eliminating other linear scatterers, which cannot be completely eliminated by the subharmonic wave amplitude difference (SAD) method. Furthermore, FAD was experimentally verified in a closed fatigue crack specimen using the closed-crackimaging method of subharmonic phased array for crack evaluation (SPACE). Thus, we demonstrated that FAD is useful for achieving the higher selectivity of closed cracks against other linear scatterers than previous amplitude difference methods without filtering out the subharmonic or superharmonic waves.
We derive explicit expressions for quantum discord and classical correlation for an X structure density matrix. Based on the characteristics of the expressions, the quantum discord and the classical correlation are easily obtained and compared under different initial conditions using a novel analytical method. We explain the relationships among quantum discord, classical correlation, and entanglement, and further find that the quantum discord is not always larger than the entanglement measured by concurrence in a general two-qubit X state. The new method, which is different from previous approaches, has certain guiding significance for analysing quantum discord and classical correlation of a two-qubit X state, such as a mixed state.
As we know, the majority of metal-poor Galactic halo stars appear to have chemical abundances that were enhanced by α-elements (e.g., O, Mg, Si, Ca, and Ti) during the early stage of the Galaxy. Observed metal-poor halo stars preserved this pattern by exhibiting abundance ratios [α/Fe] ∼ +0.4. A few striking exceptions that show severe departures from the general enhanced α-element chemical abundance trends of the halo have been discovered in recent years. They possess relatively low [α/Fe] compared to other comparable-metallicity stars, with abundance ratios over 0.5 dex lower. These stars may have a different chemical enrichment history from the majority of the halo. Similarly, low-α abundances are also displayed by satellite dwarf spheroidal (dSph) galaxies. We present a method to select extremely α-poor (EAP) stars from the SDSS/SEGUE survey. The method consists of a two-step approach. In the first step, we select suspected metal-poor ([Fe/H] < -0.5) and α-poor ([Mg/Fe] < 0) stars as our targets. In the second step, we determine [Mg/Fe] from low-resolution (R = 2000) stellar spectra for our targets and select stars with [Mg/Fe] < -0.1 as candidate EAP stars. In a sample of 40,000 stars with atmospheric parameters in the range of T eff = [4500, 7000] K, log g = [1.0, 5.0], and [Fe/H] = [-4.0, + 0.5], 14 candidate stars were identified. Three of these stars are found to have already been confirmed by other research.
We study the 𝑃 -𝑉 critical behavior of a four-dimensional AdS black hole in an Einstein-Maxwell gravity with a conformal anomaly by treating the cosmological constant as a variable that is related to the thermodynamic pressure. It is shown that there will be no phase transition if 𝑘 = 0 or -1 are taken. When the charge 𝑞1 of the conformal field and the coefficient 𝛼 satisfy a certain relation, the van de Waals like phase transition for the spherical black hole can occur where the temperature is lower than the small critical temperature or higher than the large one. We also evaluate the critical exponents of the phase transitions and find that the thermodynamic exponents associated with this four-dimensional AdS black hole coincide with those of the van de Waals fluid.
Surface flow visualization results are presented for the endwall and suction-side blade of a turbine blade passage. The passage consists of two adjacent blades with inlet flow control to model a multi-blade cascade. Flow visualization was performed with established methods utilizing ink dots and solvent, and oil and black powder. The flow features captured using these techniques include the horseshoe vortex and its migration across the passage to impinge on the neighbouring blade, endwall cross flow and the endwall saddle point. The methodology for using these techniques in a low-speed wind tunnel is discussed.
The resolution limits of popular sub-diffraction and sub-wavelength imaging schemes are examined using a unified approach that allows rapid comparison of the relative merits and shortcomings of each technique. This is intended to clarify the often confusing and constantly growing array of super-resolution techniques. Specific techniques examined include centroid-based techniques like PALM (photo-activated localization microscopy) and STORM (stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy), structured illumination techniques like SSIM (spatially structured illumination microscopy), STED (stimulated emission depletion), and GSD (ground state depletion), coherent techniques like MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), Rabi gradients, and light shift gradients, as well as quantum-inspired multi-photon techniques. It is found that the ultimate resolution for all these techniques can be described using a simple ratio of an oscillation frequency to an effective decay rate, which can be physically interpreted as the number of oscillations that can be observed before decay (i.e. the quality factor Q of the imaging transition).
The technology of using ultrasonic vibration to reduce friction was applied in our experiment to improve the accuracy of viscosity measurements. The electromagnetically spinning (EMS) viscometer we developed has a remarkable feature: the sample viscosity can be measured in an entirely noncontact manner. Although the apparatus enables low-viscosity measurements of less than 10 mPa&s, which has been difficult to achieve using conventional rotation viscometers, the accuracy has been limited to 10% because of the harmful effect of mechanical friction. We made a new EMS system equipped with piezoactuators to excite ultrasonic vibration to the sample cell, thereby successfully reducing the mechanical friction to onethird that in the previous system. A theory to describe the mechanical friction between the rotating probe and oscillating substrate was also proposed and examined in comparison with the experimental results.
In this paper, we investigate perfect quantum teleportation and dense coding by using an 2N -qubit W state channel. In the quantum teleportation scheme, an unknown N -qubit entangled state can be perfectly teleported. One ebit of entanglement and two bits of classical communication are consumed in the teleportation process, just like when using the Bell state channel. While N + 1 bits of classical information can be transmitted by only sending N particles in the dense coding protocol.
This paper introduces a new physical parameter -thermodynamic shear advection parameter combining the perturbation vertical component of convective vorticity vector with the coupling of horizontal divergence perturbation and vertical gradient of general potential temperature perturbation. For a heavy-rainfall event resulting from the landfall typhoon 'Wipha', the parameter is calculated by using National Centres for Enviromental Prediction/National Centre for Atmospheric Research global final analysis data. The results showed that the parameter corresponds to the observed 6 h accumulative rainband since it is capable of catching hold of the dynamic and thermodynamic disturbance in the lower troposphere over the observed rainband. Before the typhoon landed, the advection of the parameter by basic-state flow and the coupling of general potential temperature perturbation with curl of Coriolis force perturbation are the primary dynamic processes which are responsible for the local change of the parameter. After the typhoon landed, the disturbance is mainly driven by the combination of five primary dynamic processes. The advection of the parameter by basic-state flow was weakened after the typhoon landed.
We consider both the dynamics within and towards the supercycle attractors along the period-doubling route to chaos to analyze the development of a statistical-mechanical structure. In this structure the partition function consists of the sum of the attractor position distances known as supercycle diameters and the associated thermodynamic potential measures the rate of approach of trajectories to the attractor. The configurational weights for finite 2 N , and infinite N → ∞, periods can be expressed as power laws or deformed exponentials. For a finite period the structure is undeveloped in the sense that there is no true configurational degeneracy, but in the limit N → ∞ this is realized together with the analog property of a Legendre transform linking entropies of two ensembles. We also study the partition functions for all N and the action of the central limit theorem via a binomial approximation.
A scheme is proposed where two superconducting qubits driven by a classical field interacting separately with two distant LC circuits connected by another LC circuit through mutual inductance, are used for implementing quantum gates. By using dressed states, quantum state transfer and quantum entangling gate can be implemented. With the help of the time-dependent electromagnetic field, any two dressed qubits can be selectively coupled to the data bus (the last LC circuit), then quantum state can be transferred from one dressed qubit to another and multi-mode entangled state can also be formed. As a result, the promising perspectives for quantum information processing of mesoscopic superconducting qubits are obtained and the distributed and scalable quantum computation can be implemented in this scheme.
In the hole-doped, high-temperature superconducting cuprates, an intrinsic heterogeneity is found, from the early observations to recent data. Below optimum doping, the heterogeneity consists of dynamic metallic and, at low temperatures, superconducting regions in the form of clusters or stripes, which develop and decay as a function of time and location in the antiferromagnetic lattice. This behaviour is underlined by the interesting linear relation between the oxygen isotope shifts of the magnetic penetration depth and the critical temperature with a slope that is a factor 2 larger than expected for the homogeneous distribution of superfluid density. Allusion is also made to the Bose-Einstein condensation reported in structurally heterogeneous, polycrystalline polymer platelets as well as especially to the heterogeneous distribution of visible and dark matter in the Universe, which point to a change of paradigm in modern physics. perspective
GPS is already a main method of positioning measurement in geodesy and is applied widely in many fields. In order to maintain and ensure the accuracy of positioning, an accurate and efficient system for calibrating the GPS receivers must be established. A highly accurate GPS calibration network, tied to the ITRF coordinates of IGS stations, can be effectively used to evaluate the performance of GPS receivers. This study addresses the feasibility of establishing a system for calibrating GPS receivers and the system's traceability in metrology. Uncertainties of the GPS calibration networks were established and maintained by NML (National Measurement Laboratory, Taiwan). Furthermore, the networks are evaluated based on the method suggested by the ISO (International Organization for Standardization). The uncertainties of NML network coordinates are obtained and used as a basis for calibration. The results of the slope distances between pillars measured by the GPS processing units and the precise EDM units are discussed. Analytical results indicate that the 3D expanded uncertainty of the main station TNML of the network in the ITRF system is around 33.2 mm at the 95% confidence level. The 3D expanded uncertainties of the calibration points of the ultra-short distance network and the short distance network are evaluated to be about 2.2 mm and 3.4 mm, respectively in relation to the main station TNML at the 95% confidence level. The precision of the NML network coordinates suffices to calibrate the geodetic and navigational GPS receivers of regional users and is available through the Internet.
This paper investigates the control and synchronization of hyperchaotic Chen system based on the passive theory. By using two outputs, novel passive controllers are respectively designed to realize the globally asymptotical stability of the hyperchaotic Chen system and the error dynamical system, which avoids mistakes in Ref. [11], where function W (z) cannot guarantee that f 0 (z) is globally asymptotically stable via only one output and W (z) is the Lyapunov function of f 0 (z). Furthermore, numerical simulations are given to show the effectiveness of our method.
We investigate the potential of constraining the mass to light ratio of field galaxies using weak lensing shear and flexions. A suite of Monte Carlo simulations are used to generate weak lensing observations with different noise models. Using mock data, we find that the inclusion of flexions can improve the estimate of foreground halo parameters, but the details are strongly dependent on noise in the model. In the intrinsic noise limit, both shear and flexions are promising tools to study the mass to light ratio of galaxies. However, if the noise model of flexions follows the form described by Rowe et al., there is only ∼ 5% improvement in the constraints even with next generation lensing observations.
We discuss the properties of subhalos in cluster-size halos, using a high-resolution statistical sample: the Rhapsody simulations introduced in Wu et al. We demonstrate that the criteria applied to select subhalos have significant impact on the inferred properties of the sample, including the scatter in the number of subhalos, the correlation between the subhalo number and formation time, and the shape of subhalos' spatial distribution and velocity structure. We find that the number of subhalos, when selected using the peak maximum circular velocity in their histories (a property expected to be closely related to the galaxy luminosity), is uncorrelated with the formation time of the main halo. This is in contrast to the previously reported correlation from studies where subhalos are selected by the current maximum circular velocity; we show that this difference is a result of the tidal stripping of the subhalos. We also find that the dominance of the main halo and the subhalo mass fraction are strongly correlated with halo concentration and formation history. These correlations are important to take into account when interpreting results from cluster samples selected with different criteria. Our sample also includes a fossil cluster, which is presented separately and placed in the context of the rest of the sample.
Quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) observed in the giant flares of magnetars are of particular interest due to their potential to open up a window into the neutron star interior via neutron star asteroseismology. However, only three giant flares have been observed. We therefore make use of the much larger data set of shorter, less energetic recurrent bursts. Here, we report on a search for QPOs in a large data set of bursts from the two most burst-active magnetars, SGR 1806-20 and SGR 1900+14, observed with Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer. We find a single detection in an averaged periodogram comprising 30 bursts from SGR 1806-20, with a frequency of 57 Hz and a width of 5 Hz, remarkably similar to a giant flare QPO observed from SGR 1900+14. This QPO fits naturally within the framework of global magneto-elastic torsional oscillations employed to explain giant flare QPOs. Additionally, we uncover a limit on the applicability of Fourier analysis for light curves with low background count rates and strong variability on short timescales. In this regime, standard Fourier methodology and more sophisticated Fourier analyses fail in equal parts by yielding an unacceptably large number of false-positive detections. This problem is not straightforward to solve in the Fourier domain. Instead, we show how simulations of light curves can offer a viable solution for QPO searches in these light curves.
Large type-I edge localized modes (ELMs) are completely suppressed in hybrid discharges for the first time by applying an edge resonant perturbation (RMP) using an internal coil set with toroidal mode number n = 3. This is an important advance in developing hybrid discharges as a baseline operating scenario for ITER. In these experiments on the DIII-D tokamak, the ELM suppression lasts for ∼1 s in plasmas with normalized beta up to β N = 2.5 (volume average beta up to β = 3.4%) and a fusion performance factor as high as β N H 98y2 /q 2 95 = 0.20, which equals the value for the Q = 10 scenario in ITER. A strong interaction between the 3/2 neoclassical tearing mode and the RMP, which slows the pedestal toroidal rotation, limits the achievable β N and the duration of ELM suppression.
We propose a new approach to rigorously prove the existence of the steady-state degree distribution for the BA network. The approach is based on a vector Markov chain of vertex numbers in the network evolving process. This framework provides a rigorous theoretical basis for the rate equation approach which has been widely applied to many problems in the field of complex networks, e.g., epidemic spreading and dynamic synchronization.
This paper investigates the entanglement dynamics of a Heisenberg XY model for a two-spin system in the presence of a nonuniform magnetic field. The master equations and the concurrence evolution equations for the initial α state are derived and analysed. It is shown that for the symmetric initial α state, only the nonuniform field can play a role in entanglement dynamics while the uniform field and the bath will not play such a role. For the asymmetric α state, the nonuniform field leads to the beat pattern oscillation of the concurrence evolution. The inhomogeneity of the field can enhance the entanglement by suppressing the decoherence effects of both the spin-orbit interaction and the spin bath.
This paper investigates theoretically the evolutions of the entanglement entropy of a system of two coupled-chargequbits interacting with an LC -resonator. It is found that when the initial states of the two qubits are prepared in a given superposition excited state, the evolution of the von Neumann entropy of the system depends significantly on the coupling strength between the two Josephson charge qubits. With the variation of the coupling strength, the evolution of the entanglement entropy of the system forms some structures, especially the periodically bistable properties, which are the first discovered for such a system to our knowledge. It is found that the relative entropy entanglement of the system is also sensitive to the variation of the coupling strength between the two charge qubits, some novel 'collective oscillations' of the relative entropy are found for the system.
We present Swift UV/Optical Telescope (UVOT) imaging of the galaxies M81 and Holmberg IX. We combine UVOT imaging in three near-ultraviolet (NUV) filters (uvw2: 1928 Å; uvm2: 2246 Å; uvw1: 2600 Å) with groundbased optical imaging from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey to constrain the stellar populations of both galaxies. Our analysis consists of three different methods. First, we use the NUV imaging to identify UV star-forming knots and then perform spectral energy distribution (SED) modeling on the UV/optical photometry of these sources. Second, we measure surface brightness profiles of the disk of M81 in the NUV and optical. Lastly, we use SED fitting of individual pixels to map the properties of the two galaxies. In agreement with earlier studies, we find evidence for a burst in star formation in both galaxies starting ∼200 Myr ago coincident with the suggested time of an M81-M82 interaction. In line with theories of its origin as a tidal dwarf, we find that the luminosity-weighted age of Holmberg IX is a few hundred million years. Both galaxies are best fit by a Milky Way dust extinction law with a prominent 2175 Å bump. In addition, we describe a stacked median filter technique for modeling the diffuse background light within a galaxy and a Markov chain method for cleaning segment maps generated by SExtractor.
The authors have constructed various types of strong magnetic field generators using superconducting bulk magnets in conjunction with compact refrigerators. The magnetic field in the open space outside the vacuum chamber that contains a bulk magnet has been estimated as over 3 T when activated by the static fields of a 5 T superconducting solenoid magnet. The authors have tried to extend the variation of such strong field generators which are promised to develop in the future. In the study, a novel and compact bulk magnet system with use of a compact pulse tube cryocooler has recorded the maximum trapped field of 2.78 T on the magnetic pole surface. The characteristic feature of superconducting bulk magnet is defined as a compact and strong magnetic field generator. This implies that various kinds of equipments must be successively proposed even in the very early stage of industrialization of strong magnetic field generators.
In the hole-doped, high-temperature superconducting cuprates, an intrinsic heterogeneity is found, from the early observations to recent data. Below optimum doping, the heterogeneity consists of dynamic metallic and, at low temperatures, superconducting regions in the form of clusters or stripes, which develop and decay as a function of time and location in the antiferromagnetic lattice. This behaviour is underlined by the interesting linear relation between the oxygen isotope shifts of the magnetic penetration depth and the critical temperature with a slope that is a factor 2 larger than expected for the homogeneous distribution of superfluid density. Allusion is also made to the Bose-Einstein condensation reported in structurally heterogeneous, polycrystalline polymer platelets as well as especially to the heterogeneous distribution of visible and dark matter in the Universe, which point to a change of paradigm in modern physics. perspective
Low-frequency nondestructive analysis of cracks in multilayer structures using a scanning magnetic microscope
The D = 10 pure spinor constraint can be solved in terms of spinor moving frame variables v -α q and eight-component complex null vector + q , + q + q = 0, which can be related to the κ-symmetry ghost. Using this and similar solutions for the conjugate pure spinor and other elements of the non-minimal pure spinor formalism, we present a (hopefully useful) reformulation of the measure of the pure spinor path integral for superstring in terms of products of Cartan forms corresponding to the coset of 10D Lorentz group and to the coset of complex orthogonal group SO(8, C). Our study suggests a possible complete reformulation of the pure spinor superstring in terms of new irreducible set of variable.
This paper studies the synchronization of complex dynamical networks constructed by spatiotemporal chaotic systems with unknown parameters. The state variables in the systems with uncertain parameters are used to construct the parameter recognizers, and the unknown parameters are identified. Uncertain spatiotemporal chaotic systems are taken as the nodes of complex dynamical networks, connection among the nodes of all the spatiotemporal chaotic systems is of nonlinear coupling. The structure of the coupling functions between the connected nodes and the control gain are obtained based on Lyapunov stability theory. It is seen that stable chaos synchronization exists in the whole network when the control gain is in a certain range. The Gray-Scott models which have spatiotemporal chaotic behaviour are taken as examples for simulation and the results show that the method is very effective.
In this paper the laser-phase determination methods and transfer equations are presented to directly reconstruct the detailed temporal structures of ultra-short extreme ultraviolet (xuv) pulses from the measured photoelectron energy spectra (PES). Each transfer equation includes one of PID (proportional-integral-differential) terms of PES. The intensity and instantaneous frequency of attosecond xuv can be retrieved from the integral term of PES. The intensity profiles of narrow bandwidth atto-and femtosecond xuvs can be rebuilt from the proportional and differential terms of PES respectively. The methods and equations may be used to improve time resolutions in measuring ultrashort pulses.
We report on the generation of a squeezing vacuum at 1.55 µm using an optical parametric amplifier based on periodically poled LiNbO 3 . Using three specifically designed narrow linewidth mode cleaners as the spatial mode and noise filter of the laser at 1.55 µm and 775 nm, the squeezed vacuum of up to 3.0 dB below the shot noise level at 1.55 µm is experimentally obtained. This system is compatible with standard telecommunication optical fibers, and will be useful for continuous variable long-distance quantum communication and distributed quantum computing.
Magnetic resonance (MR) images often provide superior anatomic and functional information over computed tomography (CT) images, but generally are not used alone without CT images for radiotherapy treatment planning and image guidance. This study aims to investigate the potential of probabilistic classification of voxels from multiple MRI contrasts to generate synthetic CT ('MRCT') images. The method consists of (1) acquiring multiple MRI volumes: T1-weighted, T2-weighted, two echoes from a ultra-short echo time (UTE) sequence, and calculated fat and water image volumes using a Dixon method, (2) classifying tissues using fuzzy c-means clustering with a spatial constraint, (3) assigning attenuation properties with weights based on the probability of individual tissue classes being present in each voxel, and (4) generating a MRCT image volume from the sum of attenuation properties in each voxel. The capability of each MRI contrast to differentiate tissues of interest was investigated based on a retrospective analysis of ten patients. For one prospective patient, the correlation of skull intensities between CT and MR was investigated, the discriminatory power of MRI in separating air from bone was evaluated, and the generated MRCT image volume was qualitatively evaluated. Our analyses showed that one MRI volume was not sufficient to separate all tissue types, and T2-weighted images was more sensitive to bone density variation compared to other MRI image types. The short echo UTE image showed significant improvement in contrasting air versus bone, but could not completely separate air from bone without false labeling. Generated MRCT and CT images showed similar contrast between bone and soft/solid tissues. These results demonstrate the potential of the presented method to generate synthetic CT images to support the workflow of radiation oncology treatment planning and image guidance.
Compared with the charmed baryons, the bottom baryons are not very well known, either experimentally or theoretically. In this paper, we investigate the dipion strong decays of the P -wave and D-wave excited bottom baryons in the framework of the QPC model. We also extend the same analysis to the charmed baryons.
This paper provides an overview of two topics. First, it presents a unified approach to various techniques addressing the non-uniqueness of the solution of the inverse gravimetric problem; alternative, simple proofs of some known results are also given. Second, it summarizes in a concise and self-contained way a particular multiscale regularization technique involving scaling functions and wavelets.
We study the self-gravitating stars with a linear equation of state, P = aρ, in AdS space, where a is a constant parameter. There exists a critical dimension, beyond which the stars are always stable with any central energy density; below which there exists a maximal mass configuration for a certain central energy density and when the central energy density continues to increase, the configuration becomes unstable. We find that the critical dimension depends on the parameter a, it runs from d = 11.1429 to 10.1291 as a varies from a = 0 to 1. The lowest integer dimension for a dynamically stable self-gravitating configuration should be d = 12 for any a ∈ [0, 1] rather than d = 11, the latter is the case of self-gravitating radiation configurations in AdS space.
Investigations of spectroscopic parameters and molecular constants for X 1 Σ g + , w 3 Δ u , and
The technology of using ultrasonic vibration to reduce friction was applied in our experiment to improve the accuracy of viscosity measurements. The electromagnetically spinning (EMS) viscometer we developed has a remarkable feature: the sample viscosity can be measured in an entirely noncontact manner. Although the apparatus enables low-viscosity measurements of less than 10 mPa&s, which has been difficult to achieve using conventional rotation viscometers, the accuracy has been limited to 10% because of the harmful effect of mechanical friction. We made a new EMS system equipped with piezoactuators to excite ultrasonic vibration to the sample cell, thereby successfully reducing the mechanical friction to onethird that in the previous system. A theory to describe the mechanical friction between the rotating probe and oscillating substrate was also proposed and examined in comparison with the experimental results.
The Murchison Widefield Array (MWA) is a new low-frequency interferometric radio telescope, operating in the benign radio frequency environment of remote Western Australia. The MWA is the low-frequency precursor to the Square Kilometre Array (SKA) and is the first of three SKA precursors to be operational, supporting a varied science mission ranging from the attempted detection of the Epoch of Reionization to the monitoring of solar flares and space weather. In this paper we explore the possibility that the MWA can be used for the purposes of Space Situational Awareness (SSA). In particular we propose that the MWA can be used as an element of a passive radar facility operating in the frequency range 87.5-108 MHz (the commercial FM broadcast band). In this scenario the MWA can be considered the receiving element in a bi-static radar configuration, with FM broadcast stations serving as non-cooperative transmitters. The FM broadcasts propagate into space, are reflected off debris in Earth orbit, and are received at the MWA. The imaging capabilities of the MWA can be used to simultaneously detect multiple pieces of space debris, image their positions on the sky as a function of time, and provide tracking data that can be used to determine orbital parameters. Such a capability would be a valuable addition to Australian and global SSA assets, in terms of southern and eastern hemispheric coverage. We provide a feasibility assessment of this proposal, based on simple calculations and electromagnetic simulations, that shows that the detection of sub-meter size debris should be possible (debris radius of >0.5 m to ∼1000 km altitude). We also present a proof-of-concept set of observations that demonstrate the feasibility of the proposal, based on the detection and tracking of the International Space Station via reflected FM broadcast signals originating in southwest Western Australia. These observations broadly validate our calculations and simulations. We discuss some significant challenges that need to be addressed in order to turn the feasible concept into a robust operational capability for SSA. The aggregate received power due to reflections off space debris in the FM band is equivalent to a <1 mJy increase in the background confusion noise for the long integrations needed for Epoch of Reionization experiments, which is insignificant.
Silicon germanium (SiGe) heterojunction bipolar transistor (HBT) on thin silicon-on-insulator (SOI) has recently been demonstrated and integrated into the latest SOI BiCMOS technology. The Early effect of the SOI SiGe HBT is analysed considering vertical and horizontal collector depletion, which is different from that of a bulk counterpart. A new compact formula of the Early voltage is presented and validated by an ISE TCAD simulation. The Early voltage shows a kink with the increase of the reverse base-collector bias. Large differences are observed between SOI devices and their bulk counterparts. The presented Early effect model can be employed for a fast evaluation of the Early voltage and is useful to the design, the simulation and the fabrication of high performance SOI SiGe devices and circuits.
The technology of using ultrasonic vibration to reduce friction was applied in our experiment to improve the accuracy of viscosity measurements. The electromagnetically spinning (EMS) viscometer we developed has a remarkable feature: the sample viscosity can be measured in an entirely noncontact manner. Although the apparatus enables low-viscosity measurements of less than 10 mPa&s, which has been difficult to achieve using conventional rotation viscometers, the accuracy has been limited to 10% because of the harmful effect of mechanical friction. We made a new EMS system equipped with piezoactuators to excite ultrasonic vibration to the sample cell, thereby successfully reducing the mechanical friction to onethird that in the previous system. A theory to describe the mechanical friction between the rotating probe and oscillating substrate was also proposed and examined in comparison with the experimental results.
The electronic structure of amorphous Cu,Zr, --* (s = 0.65. 0.50 and 0.35) alloys 1s calculated for realistic. structurally relaxed models by using the linear muffin-tin orbital method in the atomic sphere approximation and the recursion method. The orbitals of the Cu 3dand 4sand the Zr 4d and 5s electrons are included in the calculation and the electronic charge density I S determined self-consistently. The hybridised mi.xing between the Cu 3d and Zr 4d states can be seen and the calculated density of states agrees well with the observed XPS and ups data. The observed change of the Zr-Zr distance depending on the Cu contents is attributed to charge transfer into the Zr 4d band.
There is potential for confusion between the term 'coverage interval', which is developing a common usage in metrology, and the term 'statistical coverage interval', as defined in the Guide to the Expression of Uncertainty in Measurement. The meaning of a 'statistical coverage interval' is explained further, and possible courses of action are suggested.
In order to treat hazardous municipal solid waste incinerator's (MSWI) fly ash, a new DC arc plasma furnace was developed. Taking an arc of 100 V/1000 A DC as an example, the heat transfer characteristics of the DC arc plasma, ablation of electrodes, heat properties of the fly ash during melting, heat transfer characteristics of the flue gas, and heat loss of the furnace were analyzed based on the energy conservation law, so as to achieve the total heat information and energy balance during plasma processing, and to provide a theoretical basis for an optimized design of the structure and to improve energy efficiency.
Based on a two-qubit isotropic Heisenberg XY model under a constant external magnetic field, we construct a four-level entangled quantum heat engine (QHE). The expressions for the heat transferred, the work, and the efficiency are derived. Moreover, the influence of the entanglement on the thermodynamic quantities is investigated analytically and numerically. Several interesting features of the variations of the heat transferred, the work, and the efficiency with the concurrences of the thermal entanglement of two different thermal equilibrium states in zero and nonzero magnetic fields are obtained.
In the last decade, the quality and the amount of observational asteroseismic data that has been made available by space based missions had a tremendous upgrowth. The determination of asteroseismic parameters to estimate the fundamental physical processes occurring in stars' interiors can be done today in a way that has never been possible before. In this work, we propose to compute the seismic observable β, which is a proxy of the phase shift of the acoustic modes propagating in the envelope of the Sun-like stars. This seismic parameter β can be used to identify rapid variation regions usually known as glitches. We show that a small variation in the structure, smaller than 1% in the sound speed, produces a glitch in the acoustic potential that could explain the oscillatory character of β. This method allows us to determine the location and the thickness of the glitch with precision. We applied this idea to the Sun-like star α Centauri A and found a glitch located at approximately 0.94 R (1400 s) and with a thickness of 0.2% of the stars' radius. This is fully consistent with the data and also validates other seismic tests.
Large reservoirs along rivers regulate downstream flows to generate hydropower but may also store water for irrigation and urban sectors. Reservoir management therefore becomes critical, particularly for transboundary basins, where coordination between riparian countries is needed. Reservoir management is even more important in semiarid regions where downstream water users may be totally reliant on upstream reservoir releases. If the water resources are shared between upstream and downstream countries, potentially opposite interests arise as is the case in the Syrdarya river in Central Asia. In this case study, remote sensing data (radar altimetry and optical imagery) are used to highlight the potential of satellite data to monitor water resources: water height, areal extent and storage variations. New results from 20 years of monitoring using satellites over the Syrdarya basin are presented. The accuracy of satellite data is 0.6 km 3 using a combination of MODIS data and satellite altimetry, and only 0.2 km 3 with Landsat images representing 2-4% of average annual reservoir volume variations in the reservoirs in the Syrdarya basin. With future missions such as Sentinel-3A (S3A), Sentinel-3B (S3B) and surface water and ocean topography (SWOT), significant improvement is expected. The SWOT mission's main payload (a radar interferometer in Ka band) will furthermore provide 2D maps of water height, reservoirs, lakes, rivers and floodplains, with a temporal resolution of 21 days. At the global scale, the SWOT mission will cover reservoirs with areal extents greater than 250 × 250 m with 20 cm accuracy.
Conventional 19th century thermodynamics has limited our understanding of statistical physics to systems in the thermodynamic limit, at or near equilibrium. However, in the last decade two new theorems, collectively referred to as fluctuation theorems or FTs, were introduced that quantify the energy distributions of small systems that are driven out of equilibrium, possibly far from equilibrium, by an external field. As such the FTs represent a much needed extension of non-equilibrium thermodynamics that can potentially address systems of interest in the 21st century, including nano/micro-machines and single biomolecular function. Optical trapping has served as an ideal experimental technique for demonstrating these theorems. Measurement of picoNewton scale forces over nanometre-sized displacements of a trapped micron-sized particle allows us to measure the energies to a fraction of thermal energy along the particle's trajectory-precisely what is needed to demonstrate the predictions of the FTs. Here we review the fluctuation theorems, as cast by 
Quasi-separatrix layer reconnection for nonlinear line-tied collisionless tearing modes', which appeared in the special issue 'Self-organization in Magnetic Flux Ropes Cluster' in Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion earlier in 2014.
Breakdown and streamer formation is simulated in atmospheric pressure nitrogen for a 2D planar electrode system. A PIC code with multigrid potential solver is used to simulate the evolution of the non-equilibrium ionization front on sub-nanosecond timescales. The ion and electron energy distributions are computed, accounting for the inclusion of inelastic scattering of electrons, and collisionally excited metastable production and ionization. Of particular interest is the increased production of metastable and low-energy ions and electrons when the applied field is reversed during the progress of the ionization front, giving insight into the improved species yields in nanosecond pulsed systems.
In the Phase Project at the Hefei Light Source, a fourth-harmonic "Landau" cavity will be operated in order to suppress the coupled-bunch instabilities and increase the beam lifetime of the Hefei storage ring. Instabilities limit the utility of the higher-harmonic cavity when the storage ring is operated with a small momentum compaction. Analytical modeling and simulations show that the instabilities result from Robinson mode coupling. In the analytic modeling, we operate an algorithm to consider the Robinson instabilities.
Radionuclides such as 211 At and 212 Bi which decay by the emission of αparticles are attractive for certain applications of targeted radiotherapy. The tissue penetration of 212 Bi and 211 At α-particles is equivalent to only a few cell diameters, offering the possibility of combining cell-specific targeting with radiation of similar range. Unlike the β-particles emitted by radionuclides such as 131 I and 90 Y, α-particles are radiation of high linear energy transfer and thus greater biological effectiveness. Several approaches have been explored for targeted radiotherapy with 212 Bi-and 211 At-labelled substances including colloids, monoclonal antibodies, metabolic precursors, receptor-avid ligands and other lower molecular weight molecules. An additional agent which exemplifies the promise of α-emitting radiopharmaceuticals is meta-[ 211 At]astatobenzylguanidine. The toxicity of this compound under single-cell conditions, determined both by [ 3 H]thymidine incorporation and by limiting dilution clonogenic assays, for human neuroblastoma cells is of the order of 1000 times higher than that of meta-[ 131 I]iodobenzylguanidine. For meta-[ 211 At]astatobenzylguanidine, the D 0 value was equivalent to only 6-7 211 At atoms bound per cell. These results suggest that meta-[ 211 At]astatobenzylguanidine might be valuable for the targeted radiotherapy of micrometastatic neuroblastomas.
By swapping the entanglement of genuine four-particle entangled states, we propose a bidirectional quantum secure communication protocol. The biggest merit of this protocol is that the information leakage does not exist. In addition, the ideas of the "two-step" transmission and the block transmission are employed in this protocol. In order to analyze the security of the second sequence transmission, decoy states are used.
Common noise acting on a population of identical oscillators can synchronize them. We develop a description of this process which is not limited to the states close to synchrony, but provides a global picture of the evolution of the ensembles. The theory is based on the Watanabe-Strogatz transformation, allowing us to obtain closed stochastic equations for the global variables. We show that at the initial stage, the order parameter grows linearly in time, while at the later stages the convergence to synchrony is exponentially fast. Furthermore, we extend the theory to nonidentical ensembles with the Lorentzian distribution of natural frequencies and determine the stationary values of the order parameter in dependence on driving noise and mismatch.
The segmented mirror telescope is widely used. The aberrations of segmented mirror systems are different from single mirror systems. This paper uses the Fourier optics theory to analyse the Zernike aberrations of segmented mirror systems. It concludes that the Zernike aberrations of segmented mirror systems obey the linearity theorem. The design of a segmented space telescope and segmented schemes are discussed, and its optical model is constructed. The computer simulation experiment is performed with this optical model to verify the suppositions. The experimental results confirm the correctness of the model.
An acousto-optic Q-switched Nd, Mg:LiTaO 3 crystal laser with π -polarized output at 1082.3 nm is reported for the first time. With a pumping power of 6.5 W at 808 nm, the maximum achieved pulse energy is 0.12 mJ, with a pulse width of 92 ns, corresponding to a peak power of 1.3 kW, which represents the highest peak power from rare-earth-doped ferroelectric crystal lasers. At high pump power, a photorefractive phenomenon and self-frequency-doubling are observed. Self-repairing features of the Nd,Mg:LiTaO 3 laser via interaction between the walk-off effect and the thermal photorefractive effect to improve output stability are also discussed. Furthermore, in a continuous-wave laser operation, the slope efficiency is 14.8% with respect to absorbed σ -polarized pump power, which is 6.7% higher than that of 8.1% obtained with non-polarized pumping.
Large reservoirs along rivers regulate downstream flows to generate hydropower but may also store water for irrigation and urban sectors. Reservoir management therefore becomes critical, particularly for transboundary basins, where coordination between riparian countries is needed. Reservoir management is even more important in semiarid regions where downstream water users may be totally reliant on upstream reservoir releases. If the water resources are shared between upstream and downstream countries, potentially opposite interests arise as is the case in the Syrdarya river in Central Asia. In this case study, remote sensing data (radar altimetry and optical imagery) are used to highlight the potential of satellite data to monitor water resources: water height, areal extent and storage variations. New results from 20 years of monitoring using satellites over the Syrdarya basin are presented. The accuracy of satellite data is 0.6 km 3 using a combination of MODIS data and satellite altimetry, and only 0.2 km 3 with Landsat images representing 2-4% of average annual reservoir volume variations in the reservoirs in the Syrdarya basin. With future missions such as Sentinel-3A (S3A), Sentinel-3B (S3B) and surface water and ocean topography (SWOT), significant improvement is expected. The SWOT mission's main payload (a radar interferometer in Ka band) will furthermore provide 2D maps of water height, reservoirs, lakes, rivers and floodplains, with a temporal resolution of 21 days. At the global scale, the SWOT mission will cover reservoirs with areal extents greater than 250 × 250 m with 20 cm accuracy.
We study the effects of the X-point configuration on edge localized mode (ELM) triggering peeling and ballooning modes using fixed boundary equilibria and modifying the plasma shape to approach the limit of a true X-point. The current driven pure peeling modes are asymptotically stabilized by the X-point while the stabilizing effect on ballooning modes depends on the poloidal location of the X-point. The coupled peeling-ballooning modes experience the elimination of the peeling component as the X-point is introduced. This can significantly affect the edge stability diagrams used to analyse the ELM triggering mechanisms.
The goal of this study is to measure left ventricular stroke volume (SV) from the brachial artery (BA) using electrical bioimpedance. Doppler-derived SV was used for comparison. Twenty-nine healthy adults were recruited for study. Doppler echocardiographic-derived SV was obtained from the product of distal left ventricular outflow tract cross-sectional area and systolic velocity integral. SV from the BA was obtained by transbrachial electrical bioimpedance velocimetry (TBEV). Application of a current field across the left brachium was effected by injection of a constant magnitude, high frequency, low amperage, alternating current. Therein, a static voltage (U 0 ) and pulsatile voltage change ( U(t)) were measured and converted to their corresponding impedances, Z 0 and Z(t). TBEV-derived SV was obtained by multiplying a square root value of the normalized, acceleration-based, peak first time derivative of Z(t) by a volume conductor and systolic flow time. Inter-method agreement was determined by the Bland-Altman method. To assess the contribution of blood resistivity variations to Z(t), BA diameters were measured at end-diastole and peak systolic expansion. Results indicate that since the BA demonstrates parabolic, laminar flow, with minimal diameter changes, blood resistivity variations are likely responsible for the derived impedance changes. Bland-Altman analysis shows that SV is obtainable by TBEV from healthy humans at rest.
A very promising way to increase the detection efficiency of nanowire superconducting single-photon detectors (SSPDs) consists in integrating them with advanced optical structures such as distributed Bragg reflectors (DBRs) and optical waveguides. This requires transferring the challenging SSPD technology from the usual substrates, i.e. sapphire and MgO, to an optical substrate like GaAs, on which DBRs and waveguides can be easily obtained. Therefore, we optimized the deposition process of few-nm thick superconducting NbN films on GaAs and AlAs/GaAs-based DBRs at low temperatures (substrate temperature T S = 400 • C), in order to prevent As evaporation. NbN films ranging from 150 to 3 nm in thickness were then deposited on single-crystal MgO, GaAs, MgO-buffered GaAs and DBRs by current-controlled DC magnetron sputtering (planar, circular, balanced configuration) of Nb in an Ar + N 2 plasma. 5.5 nm thick NbN films on GaAs exhibit T C = 10.7 K, T C = 1.1 K and RRR = 0.7. The growth of such high quality thin NbN films on GaAs and DBRs has never been reported before.
A computer-controlled microdensitometer has been designed and built in this laboratory for measuring Guinier powder diffraction photographs. It consists of a microcomputer-controlled single-beam microdensitometer using as a measuring unit an IR emitting diode (A= 940 nm), a collimator system and a photodiode. In order to avoid stray light, lens aberrations and focusing problems no such optical components as lenses, prisms or mirrors are used. The scan process is controlled by a microcomputer, Zilog MCZ 1/05, with two floppy disc units. The microcomputer is also used for data reduction. A direct connection with a large scale computer, Amdahl47OIV7, makes it possible to run indexing, search-match or profile refinement programs within 15 minutes from the moment the film is mounted in the scanner.
The X-ray spectrometer used in high-energy-density plasma experiments generally requires both broad X-ray energy coverage and high temporal, spatial, and spectral resolutions for overcoming the difficulties imposed by the X-ray background, debris, and mechanical shocks. By using an elliptical crystal together with a streak camera, we resolve this issue at the SG-II laser facility. The carefully designed elliptical crystal has a broad spectral coverage with high resolution, strong rejection of the diffuse and/or fluorescent background radiation, and negligible source broadening for extended sources. The spectra that are Bragg reflected ( 
Using the effective non-Markovian measure proposed by Breuer et al. recently, we study the memory effect of a central qubit system coupled to a spin chain environment with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction in a transverse field. It is discovered that the central qubit system presents different memory effects in different environment phases with the different oscillatory behaviors of the decoherence factor. Moreover, it is revealed that the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction has a prominent influence on the memory effect of a central qubit system via modifying the amplitude and period of the decoherence factor under certain conditions.
A compact and tunable size-based flow fractionation microchip using negative dielectrophoresis (DEP) is presented in this paper. In the microchip, a sample containing a mixture of particles is hydrodynamically focused in a contraction section and then sorted by size after flowing over planar interdigitated electrodes. The electrodes and flow chamber were aligned at an angle of 45° to produce effective sorting. 1, 2.5 and 4.8 µm polystyrene (PS) particles were successfully separated into three distinct streams in a short distance (1 mm) and collected in different outlet channels. The sorting was subjected to flow rates and electric potential. The experimental sorting efficiencies of 1, 2.5 and 4.8 µm particles reached 97.2%, 79.6% and 99.8%, respectively. With the same device, lipid vesicle sorting was demonstrated. 86.9% of vesicles larger than 10 µm were effectively extracted from the sample stream. Likewise, sorting of other biological particles can be achieved in the same fashion.
A compact and tunable size-based flow fractionation microchip using negative dielectrophoresis (DEP) is presented in this paper. In the microchip, a sample containing a mixture of particles is hydrodynamically focused in a contraction section and then sorted by size after flowing over planar interdigitated electrodes. The electrodes and flow chamber were aligned at an angle of 45° to produce effective sorting. 1, 2.5 and 4.8 µm polystyrene (PS) particles were successfully separated into three distinct streams in a short distance (1 mm) and collected in different outlet channels. The sorting was subjected to flow rates and electric potential. The experimental sorting efficiencies of 1, 2.5 and 4.8 µm particles reached 97.2%, 79.6% and 99.8%, respectively. With the same device, lipid vesicle sorting was demonstrated. 86.9% of vesicles larger than 10 µm were effectively extracted from the sample stream. Likewise, sorting of other biological particles can be achieved in the same fashion.
We propose a stellar locus outlier (SLOT) method to determine the binary fraction of main-sequence stars statistically. The method is sensitive to neither the period nor mass ratio distributions of binaries and is able to provide model-free estimates of binary fraction for large numbers of stars of different populations in large survey volumes. We have applied the SLOT method to two samples of stars from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Stripe 82, constructed by combining the recalibrated SDSS photometric data with the spectroscopic information from the SDSS and LAMOST surveys. For the SDSS spectroscopic sample, we find an average binary fraction for field FGK stars of 41% ± 2%. The fractions decrease toward late spectral types and are 44% ± 5%, 43% ± 3%, 35% ± 5%, and 28% ± 6% for stars with gi colors in the range 0.3-0.6 mag, 0.6-0.9 mag, 0.9-1.2 mag, and 1.2-1.6 mag, respectively. A modest metallicity dependence is also found. The fraction decreases with increasing metallicity. For stars with [Fe/H] between -0.5 and 0.0 dex, -1.0 and -0.5 dex, -1.5 and -1.0 dex, and -2.0 and -1.5 dex, the inferred binary fractions are 37% ± 3%, 39% ± 3%, 50% ± 9%, and 53% ± 20%, respectively. We have further divided the sample into stars from the thin disk, the thick disk, the transition zone between them, and the halo. The results suggest that the Galactic thin and thick disks have comparable binary fractions, whereas the Galactic halo contains a significantly larger fraction of binaries. Applying the method to the LAMOST spectroscopic sample yields consistent results. Finally, other potential applications and future work with the method are discussed.
We have studied the generation of multipartite entangled states for the superconducting phase qubits. The experiments performed in this direction have the capacity to generate several specific multipartite entangled states for three and four qubits. Our studies are also important as we have used a computable measure of genuine multipartite entanglement whereas all previous studies analyzed certain probability amplitudes. As a comparison, we have reviewed the generation of multipartite entangled states via von Neumann projective measurements.
Controls required for small-speed lateral flight of a model insect were studied using techniques based on the linear theories of stability and control (the stability and control derivatives were computed by the method of computational fluid dynamics). The main results are as follows.
The output characteristics of the Er-doped mode-locked fiber laser using a single-walled carbon nanotube saturable absorber are investigated theoretically with a nonlinear Schrödinger equation and a saturable absorption equation using realistic parameters. Stable self-starting mode-locking pulses are achieved under net normal, net zero, and net anomalous cavity group velocity dispersion (GVD) respectively. A spectrum with a flat top is obtained from the net normal cavity GVD laser while a spectrum with Kelly side-bands is obtained from the net anomalous cavity GVD laser. The characteristics of the pulse duration changing with cavity GVD and modulation depth of the single-walled carbon nanotubes are discussed. The characteristics of the mode-locking pulses from net normal, net zero, and net anomalous cavity GVD mode-locked fiber lasers are compared. These systematical results are useful for designing mode-locked fiber lasers with saturable absorbers made by different kinds of carbon nano-materials.
We propose a stellar locus outlier (SLOT) method to determine the binary fraction of main-sequence stars statistically. The method is sensitive to neither the period nor mass ratio distributions of binaries and is able to provide model-free estimates of binary fraction for large numbers of stars of different populations in large survey volumes. We have applied the SLOT method to two samples of stars from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Stripe 82, constructed by combining the recalibrated SDSS photometric data with the spectroscopic information from the SDSS and LAMOST surveys. For the SDSS spectroscopic sample, we find an average binary fraction for field FGK stars of 41% ± 2%. The fractions decrease toward late spectral types and are 44% ± 5%, 43% ± 3%, 35% ± 5%, and 28% ± 6% for stars with gi colors in the range 0.3-0.6 mag, 0.6-0.9 mag, 0.9-1.2 mag, and 1.2-1.6 mag, respectively. A modest metallicity dependence is also found. The fraction decreases with increasing metallicity. For stars with [Fe/H] between -0.5 and 0.0 dex, -1.0 and -0.5 dex, -1.5 and -1.0 dex, and -2.0 and -1.5 dex, the inferred binary fractions are 37% ± 3%, 39% ± 3%, 50% ± 9%, and 53% ± 20%, respectively. We have further divided the sample into stars from the thin disk, the thick disk, the transition zone between them, and the halo. The results suggest that the Galactic thin and thick disks have comparable binary fractions, whereas the Galactic halo contains a significantly larger fraction of binaries. Applying the method to the LAMOST spectroscopic sample yields consistent results. Finally, other potential applications and future work with the method are discussed.
A combination of a ultra high vacuum arc deposition system and a recrystallization method was used to optimize the smoothness and thickness of thin-layer lead cathodes for superconducting niobium electron injectors. A non-filtered arc system was chosen to deposit Pb films on niobium. The films then underwent melting and recrystallization by treating them with pulsed argon ion beams in a rod plasma injector.
We propose a stellar locus outlier (SLOT) method to determine the binary fraction of main-sequence stars statistically. The method is sensitive to neither the period nor mass ratio distributions of binaries and is able to provide model-free estimates of binary fraction for large numbers of stars of different populations in large survey volumes. We have applied the SLOT method to two samples of stars from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Stripe 82, constructed by combining the recalibrated SDSS photometric data with the spectroscopic information from the SDSS and LAMOST surveys. For the SDSS spectroscopic sample, we find an average binary fraction for field FGK stars of 41% ± 2%. The fractions decrease toward late spectral types and are 44% ± 5%, 43% ± 3%, 35% ± 5%, and 28% ± 6% for stars with gi colors in the range 0.3-0.6 mag, 0.6-0.9 mag, 0.9-1.2 mag, and 1.2-1.6 mag, respectively. A modest metallicity dependence is also found. The fraction decreases with increasing metallicity. For stars with [Fe/H] between -0.5 and 0.0 dex, -1.0 and -0.5 dex, -1.5 and -1.0 dex, and -2.0 and -1.5 dex, the inferred binary fractions are 37% ± 3%, 39% ± 3%, 50% ± 9%, and 53% ± 20%, respectively. We have further divided the sample into stars from the thin disk, the thick disk, the transition zone between them, and the halo. The results suggest that the Galactic thin and thick disks have comparable binary fractions, whereas the Galactic halo contains a significantly larger fraction of binaries. Applying the method to the LAMOST spectroscopic sample yields consistent results. Finally, other potential applications and future work with the method are discussed.
A combination of a ultra high vacuum arc deposition system and a recrystallization method was used to optimize the smoothness and thickness of thin-layer lead cathodes for superconducting niobium electron injectors. A non-filtered arc system was chosen to deposit Pb films on niobium. The films then underwent melting and recrystallization by treating them with pulsed argon ion beams in a rod plasma injector.
A simple method is proposed for estimating cross sections for excitation and ionization in collision of atoms with fast multiply charged ions in cases in which the Born approximation is inapplicable. This method is analogous to the approximation of sudden excitations and allows direct generalization to collisions that lead to simultaneous excitation and ionization of two or more electrons. Ionization of a hydrogen atom and double imiration ora helium atom have been considered. Comparison with experiments is given.
We review and re-examine the description and separation of the spin and orbital angular momenta (AM) of an electromagnetic field in free space. While the spin and orbital AM of light are not separately meaningful physical quantities in orthodox quantum mechanics or classical field theory, these quantities are routinely measured and used for applications in optics. A meaningful quantum description of the spin and orbital AM of light was recently provided by several authors, which describes separately conserved and measurable integral values of these quantities. However, the electromagnetic field theory still lacks corresponding locally conserved spin and orbital AM currents. In this paper, we construct these missing spin and orbital AM densities and fluxes that satisfy the proper continuity equations. We show that these are physically measurable and conserved quantities. These are, however, not Lorentz-covariant, so only make sense in the single laboratory reference frame of the measurement probe. The fluxes we derive improve the canonical (nonconserved) spin and orbital AM fluxes, and include a 'spin-orbit' term that describes the spin-orbit interaction effects observed in nonparaxial optical fields. We also consider both standard and dual-symmetric versions of the electromagnetic field theory. Applying the general theory to nonparaxial optical vortex beams validates our results and allows us to discriminate between earlier approaches to the problem. Our
founder of Hewlett Packard's foundational physical science initiatives, outlines his team's progress in applying fundamental research to the market, and explains why
The giant single-celled slime mould Physarum polycephalum is known to approximate a number of network problems via growth and adaptation of its protoplasmic transport network and can serve as an inspiration towards unconventional, material-based computation. In Physarum, predictable morphological adaptation is prevented by its adhesion to the underlying substrate.
A combination of a ultra high vacuum arc deposition system and a recrystallization method was used to optimize the smoothness and thickness of thin-layer lead cathodes for superconducting niobium electron injectors. A non-filtered arc system was chosen to deposit Pb films on niobium. The films then underwent melting and recrystallization by treating them with pulsed argon ion beams in a rod plasma injector.
A combination of a ultra high vacuum arc deposition system and a recrystallization method was used to optimize the smoothness and thickness of thin-layer lead cathodes for superconducting niobium electron injectors. A non-filtered arc system was chosen to deposit Pb films on niobium. The films then underwent melting and recrystallization by treating them with pulsed argon ion beams in a rod plasma injector.
Quantum correlations in an anisotropic Heisenberg XY Z chain is investigated by use of concurrence C and measurement-induced disturbance (MID). We show that the behaviors of the MID are remarkably different from the concurrence. Firstly, it is shown that there is a revival phenomenon in the concurrence but not in the MID, which is suitable for both the ground state case and the finite temperature case. Based on the analysis of the ground-state C and MID structures, we illustrate the reason why the ground-state MID does not show a revival phenomenon in detail. Then we explore different effects of the external and self parameters on entanglement and MID behaviors. It can be shown that the region of MID is evidently larger than the case of concurrence, and that the concurrence signals a quantum phase transition even at finite T while MID does not. Cases where the concurrence finally maintains one nonzero constant value regardless of the value of the variable B for a constant J z , while MID decreases monotonously to zero with increasing B. We also show that if B can take a proper range of values, the concurrence decreases with the improvement of the anisotropic parameter γ, whereas an opposite effect for MID behaviors is presented.
A combination of a ultra high vacuum arc deposition system and a recrystallization method was used to optimize the smoothness and thickness of thin-layer lead cathodes for superconducting niobium electron injectors. A non-filtered arc system was chosen to deposit Pb films on niobium. The films then underwent melting and recrystallization by treating them with pulsed argon ion beams in a rod plasma injector.
A combination of a ultra high vacuum arc deposition system and a recrystallization method was used to optimize the smoothness and thickness of thin-layer lead cathodes for superconducting niobium electron injectors. A non-filtered arc system was chosen to deposit Pb films on niobium. The films then underwent melting and recrystallization by treating them with pulsed argon ion beams in a rod plasma injector.
founder of Hewlett Packard's foundational physical science initiatives, outlines his team's progress in applying fundamental research to the market, and explains why
We review and re-examine the description and separation of the spin and orbital angular momenta (AM) of an electromagnetic field in free space. While the spin and orbital AM of light are not separately meaningful physical quantities in orthodox quantum mechanics or classical field theory, these quantities are routinely measured and used for applications in optics. A meaningful quantum description of the spin and orbital AM of light was recently provided by several authors, which describes separately conserved and measurable integral values of these quantities. However, the electromagnetic field theory still lacks corresponding locally conserved spin and orbital AM currents. In this paper, we construct these missing spin and orbital AM densities and fluxes that satisfy the proper continuity equations. We show that these are physically measurable and conserved quantities. These are, however, not Lorentz-covariant, so only make sense in the single laboratory reference frame of the measurement probe. The fluxes we derive improve the canonical (nonconserved) spin and orbital AM fluxes, and include a 'spin-orbit' term that describes the spin-orbit interaction effects observed in nonparaxial optical fields. We also consider both standard and dual-symmetric versions of the electromagnetic field theory. Applying the general theory to nonparaxial optical vortex beams validates our results and allows us to discriminate between earlier approaches to the problem. Our
founder of Hewlett Packard's foundational physical science initiatives, outlines his team's progress in applying fundamental research to the market, and explains why
Using Majorana representation of symmetric N-qubit pure states, we have examined the monogamous nature of the family of states with two-distinct spinors, the W class of states. We have evaluated the N-concurrence tangle and showed that all the states in this family have vanishing concurrence tangle. The negativity tangle for the W class of states is shown to be non-zero, illustrating the fact that the concurrence tangle is always lesser than or equal to the negativity tangle in a pure N-qubit state.
A combination of a ultra high vacuum arc deposition system and a recrystallization method was used to optimize the smoothness and thickness of thin-layer lead cathodes for superconducting niobium electron injectors. A non-filtered arc system was chosen to deposit Pb films on niobium. The films then underwent melting and recrystallization by treating them with pulsed argon ion beams in a rod plasma injector.
We propose a stellar locus outlier (SLOT) method to determine the binary fraction of main-sequence stars statistically. The method is sensitive to neither the period nor mass ratio distributions of binaries and is able to provide model-free estimates of binary fraction for large numbers of stars of different populations in large survey volumes. We have applied the SLOT method to two samples of stars from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Stripe 82, constructed by combining the recalibrated SDSS photometric data with the spectroscopic information from the SDSS and LAMOST surveys. For the SDSS spectroscopic sample, we find an average binary fraction for field FGK stars of 41% ± 2%. The fractions decrease toward late spectral types and are 44% ± 5%, 43% ± 3%, 35% ± 5%, and 28% ± 6% for stars with gi colors in the range 0.3-0.6 mag, 0.6-0.9 mag, 0.9-1.2 mag, and 1.2-1.6 mag, respectively. A modest metallicity dependence is also found. The fraction decreases with increasing metallicity. For stars with [Fe/H] between -0.5 and 0.0 dex, -1.0 and -0.5 dex, -1.5 and -1.0 dex, and -2.0 and -1.5 dex, the inferred binary fractions are 37% ± 3%, 39% ± 3%, 50% ± 9%, and 53% ± 20%, respectively. We have further divided the sample into stars from the thin disk, the thick disk, the transition zone between them, and the halo. The results suggest that the Galactic thin and thick disks have comparable binary fractions, whereas the Galactic halo contains a significantly larger fraction of binaries. Applying the method to the LAMOST spectroscopic sample yields consistent results. Finally, other potential applications and future work with the method are discussed.
Objective. The bedside detection of potential awareness in patients with disorders of consciousness (DOC) currently relies only on behavioral observations and tests; however, the misdiagnosis rates in this patient group are historically relatively high. In this study, we proposed a visual hybrid brain-computer interface (BCI) combining P300 and steady-state evoked potential (SSVEP) responses to detect awareness in severely brain injured patients. Approach. Four healthy subjects, seven DOC patients who were in a vegetative state (VS, n = 4) or minimally conscious state (MCS, n = 3), and one locked-in syndrome (LIS) patient attempted a command-following experiment. In each experimental trial, two photos were presented to each patient; one was the patientʼs own photo, and the other photo was unfamiliar. The patients were instructed to focus on their own or the unfamiliar photos. The BCI system determined which photo the patient focused on with both P300 and SSVEP detections. Main results. Four healthy subjects, one of the 4 VS, one of the 3 MCS, and the LIS patient were able to selectively attend to their own or the unfamiliar photos (classification accuracy, 66-100%). Two additional patients (one VS and one MCS) failed to attend the unfamiliar photo (50-52%) but achieved significant accuracies for their own photo (64-68%). All other patients failed to show any significant response to commands (46-55%). Significance. Through the hybrid BCI system, command following was detected in four healthy subjects, two of 7 DOC patients, and one LIS patient. We suggest that the hybrid BCI system could be used as a supportive bedside tool to detect awareness in patients with DOC.
Quantum correlation dynamics in an anisotropic Heisenberg XY Z model under decoherence is investigated by making use of concurrence C and quantum discord (QD). Firstly, we show that both the concurrence and QD exhibit oscillation with time whereas a remarkable difference between them is presented: there is an "entanglement intermittently sudden death" phenomenon in the concurrence but not in the QD, which is valid for all the initial states of this system. Also, the interval time of entanglement sudden death is found to be strongly dependent on the initial states, the inhomogeneous magnetic field b and the anisotropic parameter ∆ . Then, it implies that the steady concurrence and QD can be obtained in the long-time limit, which means that the environmental decoherence cannot entirely destroy the quantum correlation, the variation of the uniform magnetic field B and the anisotropic parameter can change the magnitude of the steady concurrence and QD evidently whereas the parameter b cannot. In addition, based on the analysis of the steady concurrence and QD with t →∞, we give the reason why the magnitude of the steady concurrence and QD is so complicated with the change of the parameters B and ∆ , whereas the parameter b is independent of the steady concurrence and QD.
An N-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state has many applications in various quantum information tasks and can be realized in different experimental schemes. A GHZ diagonal state evolves to another GHZ diagonal state in independent parallel Pauli channels. We give the explicit expression of the resultant GHZ diagonal state in terms of the initial state and channel parameters. If the initial state is a pure N qubit GHZ state or a three-qubit GHZ diagonal state admits a condition, the full separability criterion of the Pauli noisy state is equivalent to positive partial transpose (PPT) criterion. Thus the fully separable condition follows.
We investigate the quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty for an entangled two-qubit system in a local quantum noise channel with PT -symmetric operation performing on one of the two particles. Our results show that the quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty in the qubits system can be reduced effectively by the local PT -symmetric operation. Physical explanations for the behavior of the quantum-memory-assisted entropic uncertainty are given based on the property of entanglement of the qubits system and the non-locality induced by the re-normalization procedure for the non-Hermitian PT -symmetric operation.
The electronic properties and topological phases of ThXY (X = Pb, Au, Pt, Pd and Y = Sb, Bi, Sn) compounds in the presence of spin-orbit coupling, using density functional theory are investigated. The ThPtSn compound is stable in the ferromagnetic phase and the other ThXY compounds are stable in nonmagnetic phases. Band structures of these compounds in topological phases (insulator or metal) and normal phases within generalized gradient approximation (GGA) and Engel-Vosko generalized gradient approximation (GGA EV) are compared. The ThPtSn, ThPtBi, ThPtSb, ThPdBi, and ThAuBi compounds have topological phases and the other ThXY compounds have normal phases. Band inversion strengths and topological phases of these compounds at different pressure are studied. It is seen that the band inversion strengths of these compounds are sensitive to pressure and for each compound a second-order polynomial fitted on the band inversion strengths-pressure curves.
Adiabatic tunneling of Bose-Einstein condensates with modulated atom interaction in a double-well potential
We propose a scheme for a fast generating three-qubit W state in a superconducting system by using a technique of shortcuts to adiabaticity, Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants. Three identical superconducting qubits (SQs) are connected by two coplanar waveguide resonators (CPWRs) capacitively. Under a certain limit condition, we convert the complicated SQ system into a simple three-state system. By designing experimentally accessible harmonic pulses, a three-SQ W state is implemented with quite short operation time and high fidelity. Numerical simulations prove that the scheme is robust against the parameter deviation. In addition, we also give detailed discussion about the scheme robustness against decoherence.
We fabricate different-sized Al/AlO x /Al Josephson junctions by using a simple bridge-free technique, in which only single-layer E-beam resist polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) is exposed at low accelerate voltage (below 30 kV) and the size of junction can be varied in a large range. Compared with the bridge technique, this fabrication process is very robust because it can avoid collapsing the bridge during fabrication. This makes the bridge-free technique more popular to meet different requirements for Josephson junction devices especially for superconducting quantum bits.
Herein, we present an approach to look for the best phenomenon to measure quantum correlation. The system of two isolated qubits each interacting with a single-mode cavity was theoretically created to study the quantum correlation. Some of the phenomena, such as the quantum discord and concurrence, were generated through such a system. The influences of initial state purity, qubit motion, and detuning parameters were discussed for the phenomena. These parameters for a specific value show that the behavior of phenomena are analogous. It is interesting to mention that some values of detuning undergo a sudden death of phenomena, and the quantum discord still captures the qubits quantum correlation. We predict that the quantum discord may be a better measure of quantum correlation than concurrence.
Colicins are antimicrobial proteins produced by Escherichia coli, which, upon secretion from the host, kill non-host E. coli strains by forming pores in the inner membrane and degrading internal cellular components such as DNA and RNA. Due to their unique cell-killing activities, colicins are considered viable alternatives to conventional antibiotics. Recombinant production of colicins requires co-production of immunity proteins to protect host cells; otherwise, the colicins are lethal to the host. In this study, we used cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) to produce active colicins without the need for protein purification and co-production of immunity proteins. Cell-free synthesized colicins were active in killing model E. coli cells with different modes of cytotoxicity. Pore-forming colicins E1 and nuclease colicin E2 killed actively growing cells in a nutrient-rich medium, but the cytotoxicity of colicin Ia was low compared to E1 and E2. Moreover, colicin E1 effectively killed cells in a nutrient-free solution, while the activity of E2 was decreased compared to nutrient-rich conditions. Both colicins E1 and E2 decreased the level of persister cells (metabolically dormant cell populations that are insensitive to antibiotics) by up to six orders of magnitude compared to that of the rifampin pretreated persister cells. This study finds that colicins can eradicate non-growing cells including persisters, and that CFPS is a promising platform for rapid production and characterization of toxic proteins.
The stabilizer group for an n-qubit state |φ is the set of all invertible local operators (ILO) Gour et al. [Gour G, Kraus B and Wallach N R 2017 J. Math. Phys. 58  092204] presented that almost all n-qubit states |ψ own a trivial stabilizer group when n ≥ 5. In this article, we consider the case when the stabilizer group of an n-qubit symmetric pure state |ψ is trivial. First we show that the stabilizer group for an n-qubit symmetric pure state |φ is nontrivial when n ≤ 4. Then we present a class of n-qubit symmetric states |φ with a trivial stabilizer group when n ≥ 5. Finally, we propose a conjecture and prove that an n-qubit symmetric pure state owns a trivial stabilizer group when its diversity number is bigger than 5 under the conjecture we make, which confirms the main result of Gour et al. partly.
We perform a proof-of-principle experiment that uses a single negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color center with a nearest neighbor 13 C nuclear spin in diamond to detect the strength and direction (including both polar and azimuth angles) of a static vector magnetic field by optical detection magnetic resonance (ODMR) technique. With the known hyperfine coupling tensor between an NV center and a nearest neighbor 13 C nuclear spin, we show that the information of static vector magnetic field could be extracted by observing the pulsed continuous wave (CW) spectrum.
Employing data from the population census in 2010 and the 1% population sample survey in 2015, this paper examines the health status of China's elderly including urban-rural differences and gender gaps in their health. In addition, sampling surveys from 1994 and 2004 are used to analyze the changes in the health status of the elderly since 1994. The results show that the health status of the urban elderly remained stable, but that of the rural elderly improved between the years 2010 and 2015. The health status of older males was generally better than that of older females. The health status of middle-aged elderly improved, but that of the oldestold declined among male groups. The prevalence of disability of the elderly declined between 1994 and 2015, but the developmental pattern of disability changed in this period.
We propose a method to estimate the average fidelity using the unitary 2t-design of a twirled noisy channel, which is suitable for large-scale quantum circuits. Compared with the unitary 2-design in randomized benchmarking, the unitary 2t-design for the twirling of noisy channels is more flexible in construction and can provide more information. In addition, we prove that the proposed method provides an efficient and reliable estimation of the average fidelity in benchmarking multistage quantum gates and estimating the weakly gate-and time-dependent noise. For time-dependent noise, we provide a scheme of moment superoperator to analyze the noise in different experiments. In particular, we give a lower bound on the average fidelity of a channel with imperfect implementation of benchmarking and state preparation and measurement errors (SPAM).
To overcome the difficulty of realizing large-scale quantum Fourier transform (QFT) within existing technology, this paper implements a resource-saving method (named t-bit semiclassical QFT over Z 2 n ), which could realize large-scale QFT using an arbitrary-scale quantum register. By developing a feasible method to realize the control quantum gate R k , we experimentally realize the 2-bit semiclassical QFT over Z 2 3 on IBM's quantum cloud computer, which shows the feasibility of the method. Then, we compare the actual performance of 2-bit semiclassical QFT with standard QFT in the experiments. The squared statistical overlap experimental data shows that the fidelity of 2-bit semiclassical QFT is higher than that of standard QFT, which is mainly due to fewer two-qubit gates in the semiclassical QFT. Furthermore, based on the proposed method, N = 15 is successfully factorized by implementing Shor's algorithm.
+,,-,./ . ,0 12 ,)* &*&3"&*+,-,#4),2 +5&6 27 ,2 ,#8 9&0 6 2 4 :+&#3 ;<=; >? 1 -@:,3 #&&A;'( *,1 $()*+,,-,./ . ,0 12 ,)* &*&3"&*+,-,#4),2 +5&6 27 ,2 ,#8 9&0 6 2 4 :+&#3 ;<=;
We constructed two kinds of amphiphilic acrylate boron fluorinated polymers (ABFPs) with backbones comprising acrylate fluorinated polymers (AFPs) and side chains comprising hydrolyzable pyridine-phenylborane functional groups. We determined the hydrolysis rates of the ABFPs by measuring their weight loss ratios. The ABFPs with shorter fluorinated side chains had higher rates of hydrolysis. We investigated and confirmed the amphiphilic and antifouling behavior of the ABFPs, using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and surface wettability analyses. During immersion for 90 days in the Bohai Sea of China, the ABFP coatings exhibited good antifouling performance. We also assessed the environmental characteristics of the ABFP coatings by determining the chemical oxygen demand (COD) and growth rate of diatoms on their surfaces. The present study provides new insight into the development of environmentally friendly ABFPs with desirable antifouling properties.
We construct a kink solution on a non-BPS D-brane using Berkovits' formulation of superstring field theory in the level truncation scheme. The tension of the kink reproduces 95% of the expected BPS D-brane tension. We also find a lump-like solution which is interpreted as a kink-antikink pair, and investigate some of its properties. These results may be considered as successful tests of Berkovits' superstring field theory combined with the modified level truncation scheme.
In various dimensional euclidean lattice gauge theories, we examine a compatibility of the Majorana decomposition and the charge conjugation property of lattice Dirac operators. In 8n and 1 + 8n dimensions, we find a difficulty to decompose a classical lattice action of the Dirac fermion into a system of the Majorana fermion and thus to obtain a factrized form of the Dirac determinant. Similarly, in 2 + 8n dimensions, there is a difficulty to decompose a classical lattice action of the Weyl fermion into a system of the Majorana-Weyl fermion and thus to obtain a factrized form of the Weyl determinant. Prescriptions based on the overlap formalism do not remove these difficulties. We argue that these difficulties are reflections of the global gauge anomaly associated to the real Weyl fermion in 8n dimensions. For this reason (besides other well-known reasons), a lattice formulation of the N = 1 super Yang-Mills theory in these dimensions is expected to be extremely difficult to find.
Atomic and molecular processes relevant to the volumetric recombination phenomena were investigated in a linear divertor plasma simulator MAP-11. Volumetric recombination is induced in He plasma by puffing of He or Hz. In the He puffing case, the reduction of the ion flux is dominated by the electron-ion recombination. In the Hz puffing case, however, it is dominated by the molecule-assisted recombination (MAR), which is characterized by the disappearance of the Helium Rydberg spectra and by the existence of the hydrogen negative ions. Current achievement and the future prospect are described.
We consider the resonant excitation of the 3868 cm-' J = 3 to 26 558 cm-' J = 2 transition in uranium. An experiment has already been done by Scarl et al which measures the upper-state population as a function of laser intensity. We re-analyse these data taking proper account of the laser's temporal pulse shape. The effect of the laser bandwidth is also included in a novel way. We find a fit to the data which gives different values for the physical parameters from those found by Scarl et al. We draw some general conclusions for experiments of this type.
The local invariants of a mixed two-qubit system are discussed. These invariants are polynomials in the elements of the corresponding density matrix. They are counted by means of group-theoretic branching rules which relate this problem to one arising in spin-isospin nuclear shell models. The corresponding Molien series and a refinement in the form of a four-parameter generating function are determined. A graphical approach is then used to construct explicitly a fundamental set of 21 invariants. Relations between them are found in the form of syzygies. By using these, the structure of the ring of local invariants is determined, and complete sets of primary and secondary invariants are identified: there are 10 of the former and 15 of the latter.
The aim of this paper is to provide a method for explicit computation of the Bures metric over the space of N-level quantum system, based on the coset parametrization of density matrices.
Corrosion-related defects in pure Al and AA 2037 Al alloy have been investigated by positron beam-based Doppler broadening energy spectroscopy. Defect profiles have been analyzed by measuring the S parameter as a function of incident positron energy up to 30 keV. When pure Al samples are immersed in 1M NaOH for various times, a significant increase in the S parameter near the surface is observed. This implies that the corrosion process involves the creation of defects and nanometer voids. In contrast, a significant decrease in the S parameter is observed after the corrosion of water-quenched Al alloy by the same method, which is interpreted as being a result of Cu enrichment near the metal-oxide interface layer.
Recently, researchers have reported many models mimicking real network evolution growth, among which some are based on network aggregation growth.
A stationary advanced tokamak scenario with an internal transport barrier (ITB) for ions and electrons, particles and momentum in combination with an H-mode barrier and flat shear (q 0 ≈ 1) was maintained for 40 confinement times and several internal skin times with H ITERL-89P β N ≈ 5. Raising the density by edge gas fuelling close to 50% of the Greenwald density to integrate proper exhaust conditions causes an increase of the threshold power to sustain an ITB and a decrease of Z eff below 2. In contrast, a density increase caused by improved core particle confinement at more triangular plasma shapes does not change the ITB onset conditions. No temporal impurity accumulation even with high-Z Ar puffing was observed despite of peaked impurity density profiles.
In the search for unmodelled gravitational wave bursts, there are a variety of methods that have been proposed to generate candidate events from time series data. BlockNormal is a method of identifying candidate events by searching for places in the data stream where the characteristic statistics of the data change. These change points divide the data into blocks in which the characteristics of the block are stationary. Blocks in which these characteristics are inconsistent with the long term characteristic statistics are marked as event triggers, which can then be investigated by a more computationally demanding multi-detector analysis.
Topological quantum computation with Fibonacci anyons relies on the possibility of efficiently generating unitary transformations upon pseudoparticles braiding. The crucial fact that such a set of braids has a dense image in the unitary operations space is well known; in addition, the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm allows us to approach a given unitary operation to any desired accuracy. In this paper, the latter task is fulfilled with an alternative method, in the SU (2) case, based on a generalization of the geodesic dome construction to higher dimension.
In this paper, we report a joint theoretical-experimental study on electron-OCS collisions in the low-and intermediate-energy ranges. More specifically, elastic differential and integral cross sections, as well as grand total (elastic + inelastic) cross sections in the 0.4-600 eV energy range, are reported. A complex optical potential consisting of static, exchange, correlationpolarization plus absorption contributions, derived from a fully molecular wavefunction, is used for the electron-molecule interaction. The Schwinger variational iterative method, combined with the distorted-wave approximation, is applied to calculate the scattering amplitudes. Additionally, we also report measured elastic differential and integral cross sections in the 100-600 eV energy range determined using the relative-flow technique. Comparison between calculated results and present and existing experimental data, as well as with other theoretical results, is encouraging.
We have introduced a class of exactly soluble Hamiltonian with either SO(2n + 1) or SU (2) symmetry, whose ground states are the SO(2n + 1) symmetric matrix product states. The hidden topological order in these states can be fully identified and characterized by a set of nonlocal string order parameters. The Hamiltonian possesses a hidden (Z 2 × Z 2 ) n topological symmetry. The breaking of this hidden symmetry leads to 4 n degenerate ground states with disentangled edge states in an open chain system. Such matrix product states can be regarded as cluster states, applicable to measurementbased quantum computation.
We construct the topological partition function of local nontoric del Pezzo surfaces using the ruled vertex formalism.
In the previous work (Jafarizadeh and Sufiani 2008 Phys. Rev. A 77 022315), by using some techniques such as stratification and spectral distribution associated with the graphs, perfect state transfer (PST) of a qubit (spin 1/2 particle) over distance-regular spin networks was discussed. In this paper, optimal transfer of an arbitrary d-level quantum state (qudit) over antipodes of more general networks called pseudo-distance-regular networks, is investigated. In other words, by using the same spectral analysis techniques and algebraic structures of pseudo-distance-regular graphs, we give an explicit analytical formula for suitable coupling constants in the specific Hamiltonians so that the state of a particular qudit initially encoded on one site will optimally evolve into the opposite site without any dynamical control, i.e., we show how to analytically derive the parameters of the system so that optimal state transfer can be achieved. Also, for the specific form of Hamiltonians that we consider, necessary conditions in order for PST to be achieved are given. Finally, for these Hamiltonians, PST and optimal imperfect ST over some important examples of pseudo-distance regular networks are discussed.
The total ion yield has been measured in the vicinity of L edges (4.7-5.5 keV) in xenon with synchrotron radiation. White lines are observed near the 2p& and 2p& ionization thresholds, corresponding to excitation of 2p electrons into unfilled nd ( n 2 5 ) levels. Low intensity and broad structures observed in both the L, and L2 continua are attributed to double core-valence (2p+5p) excitations.
Intense heavy ion beams from the Gesellschaft für Schwerionenforschung (GSI-Darmstadt) accelerator facilities are investigated for their potential to drive inertial fusion targets and are currently used to generate and probe high-energy-density (HED) matter. The existing heavy ion synchrotron facility SIS-18 delivers intense uranium beam pulses for experiments with up to 4 × 10 9 ions per bunch at a charge state of q = 73+. Higher intensities are potentially available at lower charge states, when related loss mechanisms can be overcome. We have observed intensity-dependent beam losses in SIS-18. The origin of these beam losses is attributed to processes changing the charge state of ions, which is predominantly due to collisions with rest gas atoms. The resulting change in the mass over charge ratio m/q leads to modified trajectories in dispersive beam transport elements, and finally to the loss of the particle at the vacuum tube wall. At the impact position secondary particles are produced by ion-induced desorption and as a result the pressure in the vacuum tube is increased locally. This local rise in pressure in turn leads to increased charge changing processes starting an avalanche process that may eventually lead to a complete loss of the beam during a few turns in the synchrotron. In this paper, we discuss a method to control the problem of desorbed gases with specifically designed beam catchers at critical positions. We have further developed a program package to calculate the most important beam loss mechanisms and to couple them to the dynamic vacuum problem. The basis of this simulation is an ion-optics routine where relevant atomic processes and the effects of dynamic vacuum are implemented.
We compare the freezing/melting behavior of water hydrating single-supported bilayers of a zwitterionic lipid DMPC with that of an anionic lipid DMPG. For both membranes, the temperature dependence of the elastically scattered neutron intensity indicates distinct water types undergoing translational diffusion: bulk-like water probably located above the membrane and two types of confined water closer to the lipid head groups. The membranes differ in the greater width ΔT of the water freezing transition near the anionic DMPG bilayer (ΔT ∼ 70 K) compared to zwitterionic DMPC (ΔT ∼ 20 K) as well as in the abruptness of the freezing/melting transitions of the bulk-like water.
This paper reports on the measurement of the absolute cross sections of the following associative ionization processes:
We discuss the production of ηc(2S) through the process e + e -→γηc(2S), where the leading contribution originates from 1-loop electroweak corrections. Adopting some reasonable light-cone distribution amplitudes, we analyze the cross section of this process. As the electron-positron center of mass energy √ s=3770 MeV, the typical production cross section of this process is about 1 fb.
We present new bell inequalities for arbitrary dimensional bipartite quantum systems. The maximal violation of the inequalities is computed. The Bell inequality is capable of detecting quantum entanglement of both pure and mixed quantum states more effectively.
The photoionization cross section of the fullerene ion C + 60 has been calculated within a single-electron approximation and also by using a consistent many-body theory accounting for many-electron correlations. Electronic wavefunctions of the ground and excited states have been determined within the jellium model based on the local density approximation. A giant resonance in the photoionization cross section at the photon energy ∼25 eV is predicted. It is demonstrated that the resonance profile is much higher and narrower than in the case of the neutral fullerene C 60 .
9 3. External Chromatic Parallax. 4 4. Distinction between Chromatic and Positional Parallax. 4 .5. Constancy of TotalChroniatic Parallax with Fixed Stop, 3 6. Case of Cross Lines in a Dichromatic Field. 4 7. Parallax in Optical Instruments. 5 8. Methods of Avoiding Chromatic Parallax. 4 9. Magnitude of Errors Involved.
We show that the 3D charged Banados-Teitelboim-Zanelli (BTZ) black hole solution interpolates between two different 2D AdS spacetimes: a near-extremal, nearhorizon AdS 2 geometry with constant dilaton and U(1) field and an asymptotic AdS 2 geometry with a linear dilaton. Thus, the charged BTZ black hole can be considered as interpolating between the two different formulations proposed until now for AdS 2 quantum gravity. In both cases the theory is the chiral half of a 2D CFT and describes, respectively, Brown-Hennaux-like boundary deformations and near-horizon excitations. The central charge c as of the asymptotic CFT is determined by 3D Newton constant G and the AdS length l, c as = 3l/G, whereas that of the near-horizon CFT also depends on the U(1) charge Q, c nh ∝ lQ/ √ G.
Exact analytical results for the dynamics of two interacting qubits, each of which is embedded in its own spin star bath, are presented. The time evolution of the concurrence and the purity of the two-qubit system are investigated for finite and infinite numbers of environmental spins. The effect of qubit-qubit interactions on the steady state of the central system is investigated.
The causes of degradation of electrical characteristics, which affect the energy conversion efficiency of solar cells, were evaluated using a small p-n diode array fabricated on a multi-crystalline silicon (mc-Si) substrate. Many of the current-voltage (I-V ) characteristics of diodes with grain boundaries deteriorated. However, some deteriorated diodes without grain boundaries were also found. We especially evaluated the diodes to determine the causes of degradation by electron-beam-induced current (EBIC) imaging, photoluminescence (PL) mapping, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and electron backscatter diffractometry (EBSD). As a result, it was clarified that the electrical characteristics severely deteriorated with the existence of small-angle grain boundaries. Mc-Si solar cell efficiency was significantly affected by not only obvious grain boundaries but also small-angle grain boundaries consisting of periodically aligned dislocations and possibly metallic and oxygen impurities.
A class of two-qubit states called X-states are increasingly being used to discuss entanglement and other quantum correlations in the field of quantum information. Maximally entangled Bell states and 'Werner' states are subsets of them. Apart from being so named because their density matrix looks like the letter X, there is not as yet any characterization of them. The su(2) × su(2) × u(1) subalgebra of the full su(4) algebra of two qubits is pointed out as the underlying invariance of this class of states. X-states are a seven-parameter family associated with this subalgebra of seven operators. This recognition provides a route to preparing such states and also a convenient algebraic procedure for analytically calculating their properties. At the same time, it points to other groups of seven-parameter states that, while not at first sight appearing similar, are also invariant under the same subalgebra. And it opens the way to analyzing invariant states of other subalgebras in bipartite systems.
The Bloch sphere is a familiar and useful geometrical picture of the time evolution of a single spin or a quantal two-level system. The analogous geometrical picture for three-level systems is presented with several applications. The relevant SU(3) group and su(3) algebra are eightdimensional objects and are realized in our picture as two four-dimensional manifolds that describe the time evolution operator. The first, called the base manifold, is the counterpart of the S 2 Bloch sphere, whereas the second, called the fiber, generalizes the single U(1) phase of a single spin. Now four dimensional, it breaks down further into smaller objects depending on alternative representations that we discuss. Geometrical phases are also developed and presented for specific applications. Arbitrary time-dependent couplings between three levels or between two spins (qubits) with SU(3) Hamiltonians can be conveniently handled through these geometrical objects.
We extend our previous formulation of low-energy QCD in terms of an effective lagrangean containing operators of dimensionality d ≤ 6 constructed with pseudoscalars and quark fields, describing physics below the scale of chiral symmetry breaking. We include in this paper the vector and axial-vector channels. We follow closely the Extended Chiral Quark Model approach and consistently work in the large-N c and leading log approximation and take into account the constraints from chiral symmetry and chiral symmetry restoration. The optimal fit of all parameters gives further support to a heavy scalar meson with a mass ∼ 1 GeV and a value of the axial pion-quark coupling constant g A 0.55 to 0.66, depending on some assumptions concerning the Weinberg sum rules.
The effects of laser bandwidth and Doppler broadening on the population dynamics of the ladder wnfiguration which consists of three levels of Gd such as 9D; (999.121 em-'), 5d6s6p 9F4 (17973.611 cm-') and 5d6r7s 9D: (33534.095 cm-') are studied numerically using the Bloch equation. In paRicular, for the examination of the bandwidth effect we choose a finite-bandwidth quasi-monochromatic laser and describe its field a set of phase-independent modes. The remarkable fact is noted that he laser bandwidth of 1 GHZ causes radiationatom interactions to be very strongly incoherent, so the three-level populations are the same throughtout almost all the interaction-time region.
A set of linearly independent nonorthogonal symmetric d-level quantum states can be discriminated remotely and unambiguously with the aid of two-level Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) states. We present a scheme for such a kind of remote unambiguous quantum state discrimination (UD). The probability of discrimination is in agreement with the optimal probability for local unambiguous discrimination among d symmetric states (Chefles and Barnettt 1998 Phys. Lett. A 250 223). This scheme consists of a remote generalized measurement described by a positive operator valued measurement (POVM). This remote POVM can be realized by performing a nonlocal 2d × 2d unitary operation on two spatially separated systems, one is the qudit which is encoded by one of the d symmetric nonorthogonal states to be distinguished and the other is an ancillary qubit, and a conventional local von Neumann orthogonal measurement on the ancilla. By decomposing the evolution process from the initial state to the final state, we construct a quantum network for realizing the remote POVM with a set of two-level nonlocal controlled-rotation gates, and thus provide a feasible physical means to realize the remote UD. A two-level nonlocal controlled-rotation gate can be implemented by using a two-level EPR pair in addition to local operations and classical communications (LOCCs).
We have observed a peculiar behaviour in the NQR relaxation of both chlorine isotopes in (NH&SnCI6 below 80K. An unusual ratio TI(~'CI)/T,(~~CI) = 2.4 at low temperatures can be explained by the dipolar coupling to the tunnelling ammonium protons causing relaxation by a mechanism similar to that for the proton NMR relaxation, but at slower rates. A very large maximum value around 55 K is ascribed to relaxation of the tunnel system towards the lattice, after resonant transfer of energy from the NQR system. It is argued that this relaxation time should be of the same order of magnitude as the proton TI at similar frequencies and temperatures.
We propose a stellar locus outlier (SLOT) method to determine the binary fraction of main-sequence stars statistically. The method is sensitive to neither the period nor mass ratio distributions of binaries and is able to provide model-free estimates of binary fraction for large numbers of stars of different populations in large survey volumes. We have applied the SLOT method to two samples of stars from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Stripe 82, constructed by combining the recalibrated SDSS photometric data with the spectroscopic information from the SDSS and LAMOST surveys. For the SDSS spectroscopic sample, we find an average binary fraction for field FGK stars of 41% ± 2%. The fractions decrease toward late spectral types and are 44% ± 5%, 43% ± 3%, 35% ± 5%, and 28% ± 6% for stars with gi colors in the range 0.3-0.6 mag, 0.6-0.9 mag, 0.9-1.2 mag, and 1.2-1.6 mag, respectively. A modest metallicity dependence is also found. The fraction decreases with increasing metallicity. For stars with [Fe/H] between -0.5 and 0.0 dex, -1.0 and -0.5 dex, -1.5 and -1.0 dex, and -2.0 and -1.5 dex, the inferred binary fractions are 37% ± 3%, 39% ± 3%, 50% ± 9%, and 53% ± 20%, respectively. We have further divided the sample into stars from the thin disk, the thick disk, the transition zone between them, and the halo. The results suggest that the Galactic thin and thick disks have comparable binary fractions, whereas the Galactic halo contains a significantly larger fraction of binaries. Applying the method to the LAMOST spectroscopic sample yields consistent results. Finally, other potential applications and future work with the method are discussed.
The gamma-ray blazar 1611+343 was observed with polarization VLBI mode at 5 GHz in February 1999. The total intensity (I) VLBI image of the source shows a core-jet structure. The jet bends eastward at ∼ 3 mas south of the core. Four components have been detected from results of fitting, with apparent speeds estimated at 6.7 ± 0.7, 2.5 ± 0.3, 4.5 ± 0.5 h -1 c for three jet components (taking H 0 = 100 h km s -1 Mpc -1 , q 0 = 0.5). The polarization (P ) VLBI image of 1611+343 displays the polarized configuration in the jet. The mechanism of the curved jet is discussed.
The design of an instrument employing a capacitive transducer for non-contacting measurements of displacement and vibration is considered, with the aim of combining high resolution and linear response over a wide range. The three-terminal transducer, in which movement of the earthed workpiece alters the capacitance between two non-earthed electrodes, is preferred to the two-terminal transducer, in which a capacitance to earth is measured.
We review essential elements in using the J P = 1 -channel as a probe for hot and dense matter as produced in (ultra-) relativistic collisions of heavy nuclei. The uniqueness of the vector channel resides in the fact that it directly couples to photons, both real and virtual (dileptons), enabling the study of thermal radiation and in-medium effects on both light (ρ, ω, φ) and heavy ( , ϒ) vector mesons. We emphasize the importance of inter-relations between photons and dileptons, and characterize relevant energy/mass regimes through connections to QGP emission and chiral symmetry restoration. On the basis of a critical analysis of our current understanding of data from fixed-target energies, we identify open key questions to be addressed.
We propose a systematic procedure to construct all the possible bases with a definite factorization structure (eigenstates of n commuting monomials constructed as products of Pauli operators) for an n-qubit system, as well as the possibility of collecting them into mutually unbiased sets. We also discuss an algorithm for the determination of basis separability and propose a criteria for complementarity between such bases. The results are applied to generate non-isomorphic complete sets of mutually unbiased bases.
A stainless field ion microscope head which is bakeable to 250"c and completely demountable is described, and the operational characteristics are presented. The microscope employs the continuous flow technique to cool the specimen cryogenically between 4.2 and 7 8 " ~. The liquid helium consumption varies from 0.85 1 h-1 to 0.133 1 h-1 between 11.7 and 3 4 . 8 " ~, with a pressure of 2.5 mtorr helium inside the microscope. The field ion microscope head is particularly well suited for hydrogen promotion experiments. An example of a gold specimen imaged by the latter technique in the present microscope is given.
The influences of O 2 and N 2 annealing on the dielectric properties of SrBi 2 (V 0.1 Nb 0.9 ) 2 O 9 (SBVN) ferroelectrics were studied. Ceramic samples were prepared by reaction sintering a powder mixture of constituent oxides at 950 • C for 2 h in air. Some samples were also subsequently annealed at 800 • C for 3 h in O 2 or N 2 . With O 2 annealing, the Curie point of the SBVN ferroelectrics changed from ∼433 to ∼438 • C and the peak dielectric constant increased from ∼760 to ∼1010 (at 100 kHz). However, no change in the Curie point was found with N 2 annealing. Furthermore, O 2 annealing was found to reduce significantly both the dielectric constant and loss tangent of the SBVN ferroelectrics at frequencies below 1000 Hz. XRD results revealed a small reduction in the lattice constants with O 2 annealing, but no appreciable change with N 2 annealing. In addition, no detectable change in the microstructure of the SBVN samples was found with annealing. These results imply that some V 4+ ions, which are compensated by the formation of oxygen vacancies, existed in the SBVN ferroelectrics prior to O 2 annealing. V 4+ ions were oxidized to V 5+ with O 2 annealing, which resulted in improved dielectric properties.
We introduce a class of bipartite entanglement measures based on Rényiα entropy, namely Rényi-α entanglement with an analytic formula in twoqubit systems for α 1. We also show that multi-qubit entanglement has a monogamy inequality in terms of Rényi-α entanglement for all α 2.
The dependence of the continuum X-ray generation from a W film on the primary energy (15 to 30 keV) and film thickness (0.1 to 0.7 µm) have been investigated by experiment and Monte Carlo (MC) simulation in order to develop a high-power rotor-type X-ray source of high efficiency. The continuum X-ray spectra obtained by MC simulation show excellent agreement with the experimental data, confirming the fact that the present MC simulation is applicable for a systematic study to optimize the construction of an X-ray source. The dependence of the continuum X-ray generation on the thickness of the W film has revealed that the continuum X-ray spectra from the W film of thickness ∼0.7 µm are almost similar to those of the bulk W in the investigated range of primary energies. This indicates that the thickness of the W film of ∼0.5 µm is sufficient for the rotor-type X-ray source, although a commercial-type source is of the order of hundreds µm with the primary energy of ∼50 keV.
We derive the general formula giving Berry's phase for an arbitrary spin, having both magnetic-dipole and electric-quadrupole couplings with external time-dependent fields. We assume that the 'effective' electric and magnetic fields remain orthogonal during the quantum cycles. This mild restriction has many advantages. It provides simple symmetries leading to useful selection rules. Furthermore, the Hamiltonian parameter space coincides with the density matrix space for a spin S = 1. This implies a mathematical identity between Berry's phase and the Aharonov-Anandan phase, which is lost for S > 1. We have found that new physical features of Berry's phases emerge for integer spins 2. We provide explicit numerical results of Berry's phases for S = 2, 3, 4. For any spin, one easily finds well-defined regions of the parameter space where instantaneous eigenstates remain widely separated. We have decided to stay within them and not deal with non-Abelian Berry's phases. We present a thorough and precise analysis of the non-adiabatic corrections with separate treatment for periodic and non-periodic Hamiltonian parameters. In both cases, the accuracy for satisfying the adiabatic approximation within a definite time interval is considerably improved if one chooses for the time derivatives of the parameters a time-dependence having a Blackman pulse shape. This has the effect of taming the non-adiabatic oscillation corrections which could be generated by a linear ramping. For realistic experimental conditions, the non-adibatic corrections can be kept below the 0.1% level. For a class of quantum cycles, involving as a sole periodic parameter the precession angle of the electric field around the magnetic field, the corrections odd upon the reversal of the associated rotation velocity can be canceled exactly if the quadrupole to dipole coupling is chosen appropriately ('magic values'). The even ones are eliminated by taking the difference of the Berry phases generated
behaviour of a conformal vector field X on a spacetime in a neighbourhood of a zero of X.
Using a dynamical z-pinch discharge, intense radiation of hydrogen-like carbon was produced. Operating the discharge with a maximum current of 105 kA and a period of 274 ns, the Balmer α transition at 18.23 nm appeared as a short (< 8 ns FWHM) and bright (230 kW in 4π) peak emitted from a cylindrical volume with a radius of 300 µm at the centre of the vessel. The results are compared with predictions of models for a z-pinch discharge. Optical gain for the Balmer α transition was determined to be less than 0.6 cm -1 in agreement with the prediction of the model.
Quantum discord witnesses the nonclassicality of quantum states even when there is no entanglement in these quantum states. This type of quantum correlation also has some interesting and significant applications in quantum information processing. Quantum discord has been evaluated explicitly only for a certain class of two-qubit states. We extend the previous studies to 2 ⊗ d quantum systems and derive analytical expressions for quantum discord, classical correlation and entanglement for a two-parameter class of states for d 3. We compare quantum discord, classical correlation and entanglement for qubit-qutrit systems to demonstrate that different measures of quantum correlation are not identical and conceptually different.
We show that different classes of topological order can be distinguished by the dynamical symmetry algebra of edge excitations. A fundamental topological order is realized when this algebra is the largest possible, the algebra of quantum area-preserving diffeomorphisms, called W 1+∞ . We argue that this order is realized in the Jain hierarchy of fractional quantum Hall states and show that it is more robust than the standard Abelian Chern-Simons order since it has a lower entanglement entropy due to the non-Abelian character of the quasi-particle anyon excitations. These behave as SU(m) quarks, where m is the number of components in the hierarchy. We propose the topological entanglement entropy as the experimental measure to detect the existence of these quantum Hall quarks. Non-Abelian anyons in the ν = 2/5 fractional quantum Hall states could be the primary candidates to realize qbits for topological quantum computation.
A transport theory method for calculating £ux distributions in slab fuel cell is described. Two coupled integral equations for £ux in fuel and moderator are obtained; assuming partial re£ection at moderator external boundaries. Galerkin technique is used to solve these equations. Numerical results for average £uxes in fuel and moderator and the disadvantage factor are given. Comparison with exact numerical methods, that is for total re£ection moderator outer boundaries, show that the Galerkin technique gives accurate results for the disadvantage factor and average £uxes.
For any even n qubits, we establish four stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) equations and construct four SLOCC polynomials (not complete) of degree 2 n/2 , which can be exploited for the SLOCC classification (not complete) of any even n qubits. In light of the SLOCC equations, we propose several different genuine entangled states of even n qubits and show that they are inequivalent to the |GH Z , |W , or |l, n (the symmetric Dicke states with l excitations) under SLOCC via the vanishing or not of the polynomials. The absolute values of the polynomials can be considered as entanglement measures.
We address the problem of obtaining the exact reduced dynamics of the spinhalf (qubit) immersed within the bosonic bath (environment). An exact solution of the Schrödinger equation with the paradigmatic spin-boson Hamiltonian is obtained. We believe that this result is a major step ahead and may ultimately contribute to the complete resolution of the problem in question. We also construct the constant of motion for the spin-boson system. In contrast to the standard techniques available within the framework of the open quantum systems theory, our analysis is based on the theory of block operator matrices.
The role of the 1 -norm in the Yang-Baxter system has been studied through Wigner's D-functions, where 1 -norm means i |C i | for | = i C i |ψ i with |ψ i being the orthonormal basis. It is shown that the existing two types of braiding matrices, which can be viewed as particular solutions of the Yang-Baxter equation (YBE) with different spectral parameters can be unified in the 2D YBE. We prove that the maximum of the 1 -norm is connected with the maximally entangled states and topological quantum field theory with twocomponent anyons, while the minimum leads to the deformed permutation related to the familiar integrable models.
The bipartite quantum states ρ, with rank strictly smaller than the maximum of the ranks of the reduced states ρ A and ρ B , are distillable by local operations and classical communication (Horodecki P, Smolin J A, Terhal B M and Thapliyal A V 2003 Theor. Comput. Sci. 292 589-96; 1999 arXiv:quant-
The magnetic and entanglement thermal (equilibrium) properties in spin-1/2 Ising-Heisenberg model on a triangulated Kagomé lattice are analyzed by means of variational mean-field-like treatment based on the Gibbs-Bogoliubov inequality. Because of the separable character of Ising-type exchange interactions between the Heisenberg trimers, the calculation of quantum entanglement in a self-consistent field can be performed for each of the trimers individually. The concurrence in terms of the three-qubit isotropic Heisenberg model in an effective Ising field is non-zero even in the absence of a magnetic field. The magnetic and entanglement properties exhibit common plateau and peak features observable via the (antiferromagnetic) coupling constant and external magnetic field. The critical temperature for the phase transition and threshold temperature for concurrence coincide in the case of antiferromagnetic coupling between qubits. The existence of entangled and disentangled phases in saturated and frustrated phases is established.
Thermal transport across the interfaces between few-layer graphene sheets and soft materials exhibits intriguing anomalies when interpreted using the classical Kapitza model, e.g. the conductance of the same interface differs greatly for different modes of interfacial thermal transport. Using atomistic simulations, we show that such thermal transport follows a nonlocal flux-temperature drop constitutive law and is characterized jointly by a quasi-local conductance and a nonlocal conductance instead of the classical Kapitza conductance. The nonlocal model enables rationalization of many anomalies of the thermal transport across embedded few-layer graphene sheets and should be used in studies of interfacial thermal transport involving few-layer graphene sheets or other ultra-thin layered materials.
The X-ray spectrometer used in high-energy-density plasma experiments generally requires both broad X-ray energy coverage and high temporal, spatial, and spectral resolutions for overcoming the difficulties imposed by the X-ray background, debris, and mechanical shocks. By using an elliptical crystal together with a streak camera, we resolve this issue at the SG-II laser facility. The carefully designed elliptical crystal has a broad spectral coverage with high resolution, strong rejection of the diffuse and/or fluorescent background radiation, and negligible source broadening for extended sources. The spectra that are Bragg reflected ( 
Laser wakefield accelerators operating in the blowout regime exhibit unique forward scattering characteristics. When a cavitation region is formed, the drive pulse excites currents in the electron sheath that lead to conical emission of harmonic radiation in the near-forward direction. Theoretical expressions for the spectral-angular distribution in the far field are derived. These expressions allow for arbitrary temporal profiles of both the laser pulse and the sheath density. The characteristics of the emission can be related to key characteristics of the accelerating structure. The theoretical results are compared with the results of the experiment.
We put forward a method of constructing discrete coherent states for n qubits. After establishing appropriate displacement operators, the coherent states appear as displaced versions of a fiducial vector that is fixed by imposing a number of natural symmetry requirements on its Q-function. Using these coherent states, we establish a partial order in the discrete phase space, which allows us to picture some n-qubit states as apparent distributions. We also analyze correlations in terms of sums of squared Q-functions.
Advances in the production of multiple-photon states with a broadband spectrum and its subsequent processing through linear optical systems demand simple rules to automate the calculation of probability amplitudes. A methodology to write down directly the probability amplitude of any broadband multi-photon process in linear optics is proved. A physically intuitive notion of multi-photon paths is derived from Wick's theorem and amplitudes are formulated as sums over paths. Every permutation of the out-state photon frequencies over the photon occupation indices that the in-state wavepacket assigns to the inports contributes a path. A simple general rule is provided to compute them. Broadband two-photon processes in the interferometers by Hong, Ou and Mandel (HOM) and by Mach and Zehnder (MZ) are considered. We provide a rigorous description of the HOM interferometer as a probe of the amount of frequency entanglement contained in some two-photon wavepackets, establishing an integral transform between the interference profile and the spectral density of frequency-entangled photon pairs. For the MZ interferometer, our method provides the exact rate of coincidence counts for a broadband two-photon process that is relevant for pairs produced with a wide two-dimensional spectral bandwidth by spontaneous parametric downconversion.
Quantum discord, as introduced by Ollivier and Zurek (2001 Phys. Rev. Lett.  88 017901), is a measure of the discrepancy between quantum versions of two classically equivalent expressions for mutual information and is found to be useful in quantification and application of quantum correlations in mixed states. It is viewed as a key resource present in certain quantum communication tasks and quantum computational models without containing much entanglement. An early step toward the quantification of quantum discord in a quantum state was by Dakic et al (2010 Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 190502)  who introduced a geometric measure of quantum discord and derived an explicit formula for any two-qubit state. Recently, Luo and Fu (2010 Phys. Rev. A 82 034302) introduced a generic form of the geometric measure of quantum discord for a bipartite quantum state. We extend these results and find generic forms of the geometric measure of quantum discord and total quantum correlations in a general N-partite quantum state. Further, we obtain computable exact formulas for the geometric measure of quantum discord and total quantum correlations in an N-qubit quantum state. The exact formulas for the N-qubit quantum state can be used to get experimental estimates of the quantum discord and the total quantum correlation.
We prove that the magic basis discussed by Hill and Wootters (1997 Phys. Rev.  Lett. 78 5022) does not exist for entangled 2N-qubit states with N > 1, but magic partial bases, similar to those discussed recently by Prakash and Maurya (2011 Opt.
We seek to gain insight into the nature of the determinantal moments |ρ PT | n |ρ| k Bures of generic (nine-dimensional) two-rebit and (fifteendimensional) two-qubit systems (ρ), PT denoting partial transpose. Such information-as it has proved to be in the Hilbert-Schmidt counterpartshould be useful, employing probability-distribution reconstruction (inverse) procedures, in obtaining Bures 2 × 2 separability probabilities. The (regularizing) strategy we first adopt is to plot the ratio of numerically-generated (Ginibre ensemble) estimates of the Bures moments to the corresponding (apparently) exactly-known Hilbert-Schmidt moments (Slater and Dunkl 2012 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 095305). Then, through a combination of symbolic and numerical computations, we obtain strong evidence as to the exact values (and underlying patterns) of certain Bures determinantal moments. In particular, the first moment (average) of |ρ PT | (where |ρ PT | ∈ [-1 16 , 1 256 ]) for the two-qubit systems is, remarkably, -1 256 = -2 -8 ≈ -0.003 906 25. The analogous value for the two-rebit systems is -2663 860 160 = -2663 2 13 ×3×5×7 ≈ -0.003 095 94. While
We show that 2 n discrete coherent states of an n-qubit system, generated by application of the discrete displacement operators to a symmetric fiducial state, have isotropic fluctuations, with n/2 S 2 n, in a specific tangent plane, which in general is not orthogonal to the mean spin direction. This allows us to use them as reference states to define a discrete squeezing for non-symmetric n-qubit states. Examples of states with reduced fluctuations, obtained after application of XOR gates to correlate (partially entangle) qubits, are analyzed.
In this paper, we study SLOCC determinant invariants of order 2 n/2 for any even n qubits, which satisfy the SLOCC determinant equations. The determinant invariants can be constructed by a simple method and the set of all these determinant invariants is complete with respect to permutations of qubits. The SLOCC entanglement classification can be achieved via the vanishing or not of the determinant invariants. We exemplify the method for several even number of qubits, with an emphasis on six qubits.
Employing the Hilbert-Schmidt measure, we explicitly compute and analyze a number of determinantal product (bivariate) moments |ρ| k |ρ PT | n , k, n = 0, 1, 2, 3, . . ., with PT denoting the partial transpose, for both generic (9-dimensional) two-rebit (α = 1 2 ) and generic (15-dimensional) two-qubit (α = 1) density matrices ρ. The results are, then, incorporated into a general formula, parameterized by k, n and α, with the case α = 2, presumptively corresponding to generic (27-dimensional) quaternionic systems. Holding the Dyson-index-like parameter α fixed, the induced univariate moments (|ρ||ρ PT |) n and |ρ PT | n are inputted into a Legendre-polynomial-based (leastsquares) probability-distribution reconstruction algorithm of Provost (2005 Mathematica J. 9 727), yielding α-specific separability-probability estimates. Since, as the number of inputted moments grows, estimates based on the variable |ρ||ρ PT | strongly decrease, while ones employing |ρ PT | strongly increase (and converge faster), the gaps between upper and lower estimates diminish, yielding sharper and sharper bounds. Remarkably, for α = 2, with the use of 2325 moments, a separability-probability lower bound 0.999 999 987 as large as 26 323 ≈ 0.080 4954 is found. For α = 1, based on 2415 moments, a lower bound results that is 0.999 997 066 times as large as 8 33 ≈ 0.242 424, a (simpler still) fractional value that had previously been conjectured (Slater 2007 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 14279). Furthermore, for α = 1 2 , employing 3310 moments, the lower bound is 0.999 955 times as large as 29 64 = 0.453 125, a rational value previously considered (Slater 2010
We give a practical, necessary and sufficient condition for two pure n-qubit states to be stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) equivalent. We also construct the SLOCC polynomial invariants of degree 6 for even n-qubit (n 4) states. The polynomials are in the explicit form of 3 × 3 determinants whose entries are polynomials of degree 2 in the coefficients of the states. Further, the polynomials satisfy an SLOCC equation and therefore are invariant under SLOCC. The SLOCC equations can be used for the SLOCC classification of even n qubits.
We study the quantum brachistochrone evolution for a system of two spins-1 2 described by an anisotropic Heisenberg Hamiltonian without zx, zy interacting couplings in magnetic field directed along the z-axis. This Hamiltonian realizes quantum evolution in two subspaces spanned by |↑↑ , |↓↓ and |↑↓ , |↓↑ separately and allows us to consider the brachistochrone problem on each subspace separately. Using the evolution operator for this Hamiltonian we generate quantum gates, namely an entangler gate, SWAP gate, iSWAP gate etc.
We have analytically calculated the quantum discord for a system composed of spinj and spin-1/2 subsystems possessing SU (2) symmetry. We have compared our results with the quantum discord of states having similar symmetries and seen that in our case the amount of quantum discord is much higher. Moreover, using the well-known entanglement properties of these states, we have also compared their quantum discord with entanglement. Although the system under consideration is almost separable throughout its parameter space as j increases, we have seen that the discord content remains significantly large. Investigating the quantum discord in SU (2) invariant states may find application in quantum computation protocols that utilize quantum discord as a resource since they arise in many real physical systems.
This paper investigates the stereodynamics of the reaction He+HD + by the quasi-classical trajectory (QCT) method using the most accurate AQUILANTI surface [Aquilanti et al 2000 Mol. Phys. 98 1835]. The distribution P (φr) of dihedral angle and the distribution P (θr) of angle between k and j have been presented at three different collision energies. Four generalized polarization-dependent differential cross-sections (2π/σ)(dσ 00 /dωt), (2π/σ)(dσ 20 /dωt), (2π/σ)(dσ 22+ /dωt), (2π/σ)(dσ 21-/dωt) are also calculated. Some interesting results are obtained from the comparison of the stereodynamics of the title reaction at different collision energies.
In this paper, we present a double-gate (DG) MOSFET compact model including hydrodynamic transport and quantum mechanical effects in order to extend its application to nanometer technology nodes. The final compact model can accurately reproduce simulation results of some of the most advanced transport simulators. Template devices representative of 22 and 16 nm DG MOSFETs are used. The model is based on a compact model for charge quantization within the channel and it includes mobility degradation, channel length modulation, drain-induced barrier lowering, overshoot velocity effects and quantum mechanical effects. Comparison between the advanced transport modeling approaches and the compact model shows a good degree of agreement within the practical range of voltages.
We report the detection of an X-ray absorption feature near the galaxy M86 in the Virgo cluster. The absorber has a column density of 2-3 × 10 20 cm -2 , and its position coincides with the peak of an intracluster H i cloud which was removed from the galaxy NGC 4388 presumably by ram pressure. These results indicate that the H i cloud is located in front of M86 along the line-of-sight, and suggest that the stripping was primarily created by an interaction between NGC 4388 and the hot plasmas of the Virgo cluster, not the M86 halo. By calculating an X-ray temperature map, we further detected an X-ray counterpart of the H i cloud up to ≈3 south of M86. It has a temperature of 0.89 keV and a mass of ∼4.5 × 10 8 M , exceeding the estimated H i gas mass. The high hot-to-cold gas ratio in the cloud indicates a significant evaporation of the H i gas, probably by thermal conduction from the hotter cluster plasma with a sub-Spitzer rate.
A novel real-time adaptive MV-kV imaging framework for image-guided radiation therapy is developed to reduce the thoracic and abdominal tumor targeting uncertainty caused by respiration-induced intrafraction motion with ultra-low patient imaging dose. In our method, continuous stereoscopic MV-kV imaging is used at the beginning of a radiation therapy delivery for several seconds to measure the implanted marker positions. After this stereoscopic imaging period, the kV imager is switched off except for the times when no fiducial marker is detected in the cine-MV images. The 3D time-varying marker positions are estimated by combining the MV 2D projection data and the motion correlations between directional components of marker motion established from the stereoscopic imaging period and updated afterwards; in particular, the most likely position is assumed to be the position on the projection line that has the shortest distance to the first principal component line segment constructed from previous trajectory points. An adaptive windowed auto-regressive prediction is utilized to predict the marker position a short time later (310 ms and 460 ms in this study) to allow for tracking system latency. To demonstrate the feasibility and evaluate the accuracy of the proposed method, computer simulations were performed for both arc and fixed-gantry deliveries using 66 h of retrospective tumor motion data from 42 patients treated for thoracic or abdominal cancers. The simulations reveal that using our hybrid approach, a smaller than 1.2 mm or 1.5 mm root-mean-square tracking error can be achieved at a system latency of 310 ms or 460 ms, respectively. Because the kV imaging is only used for a short period of time in our method, extra patient imaging dose can be reduced by an order of magnitude compared to continuous MV-kV imaging, while the clinical tumor targeting accuracy
We consider local unitary invariants and entanglement monotones for the mixed two qutrit system. Character methods for the local SU (3) × SU (3) transformation group are used to establish the count of algebraically independent polynomial invariants up to degree 5 in the components of the density operator. These are identified up to quartic degree in the standard basis of Gell-Mann matrices, with the help of the calculus of f and d coefficients. Next, investigating local measurement operations, we study a SLOCC qutrit group, which plays the role of a 'relativistic' transformation group analogous to that of the Lorentz group SL(2, C) R SO(3, 1) for the qubit case. This is the group SL(3, C) R , presented as a group of real 9×9 matrices acting linearly on the ninedimensional space of projective coordinates for the qutrit density matrix. The counterpart, for qutrits, of the invariant 4×4 Minkowski metric of the qubit case, proves to be a certain 9 × 9 × 9 totally symmetric three-fold tensor generalizing the Gell-Mann d coefficient. Using this structure, we provide a count of the corresponding local special linear polynomial invariants using group character methods. Finally, we give an explicit construction of the lowest degree quantity (the cubic invariant) and its expansion in terms of SU (3) × SU (3) invariants, and we indicate how to construct higher degree analogues. These quantities are proven to yield entanglement monotones. This work generalizes and partly extends the paper of King et al (2007 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 10083) on the mixed two qubit system, which is reviewed in an appendix.
The technology of using ultrasonic vibration to reduce friction was applied in our experiment to improve the accuracy of viscosity measurements. The electromagnetically spinning (EMS) viscometer we developed has a remarkable feature: the sample viscosity can be measured in an entirely noncontact manner. Although the apparatus enables low-viscosity measurements of less than 10 mPa&s, which has been difficult to achieve using conventional rotation viscometers, the accuracy has been limited to 10% because of the harmful effect of mechanical friction. We made a new EMS system equipped with piezoactuators to excite ultrasonic vibration to the sample cell, thereby successfully reducing the mechanical friction to onethird that in the previous system. A theory to describe the mechanical friction between the rotating probe and oscillating substrate was also proposed and examined in comparison with the experimental results.
A significant proportion of cancer patients is treated using MeV electron radiation. One of the measurement methods which is likely to furnish reliable dose values also under non-reference conditions is the dosimetry using alanine and read-out via electron spin resonance (ESR). The system has already proven to be suitable for QA purposes for modern radiotherapy involving megavoltage x-rays. In order to render the secondary standard measurement system of the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt based on alanine/ESR useable for dosimetry in radiotherapy, the dose-to-water (D W ) response of the dosemeter needs to be known for relevant radiation qualities. For MeV electrons, the D W response was determined using the Fricke primary standard of the Swiss Federal Office of Metrology. Since there were no citable detailed publications on the Swiss primary standard available, this measurement system is described in some detail. The experimental results for the D W response are compared to results of Monte Carlo simulations which model in detail the beams furnished by the electron accelerator as well as the geometry of the detectors. The agreement between experiment and simulation is very good, as well as the agreement with results published by the National Research Council of Canada which are based on a different primary standard. No significant dependence of the D W response was found in the range between 6 and 20 MeV. It is therefore suggested to use a unique correction factor k E for alanine for all MeV qualities of k E = 1.012 ± 0.010.
One possible channel for the formation of dwarf galaxies involves birth in the tidal tails of interacting galaxies. We report the detection of a bright UV tidal tail and several young tidal dwarf galaxy (TDG) candidates in the post-merger galaxy NGC 4922 in the Coma cluster. Based on a two-component population model (combining young and old stellar populations), we find that the light of tidal tail predominantly comes from young stars (a few Myr old). The Galaxy Evolution Explorer ultraviolet data played a critical role in the parameter (age and mass) estimation. Our stellar mass estimates of the TDG candidates are ∼10 6-7 M , typical for dwarf galaxies.
This paper reports the application of liquid electrode plasma atomic emission spectrometry (LEP AES) integrated with on-chip solid phase extraction (SPE) for determination of lead (Pb). LEP AES is a novel elemental analysis method employing micro-plasma in the sample solution as excitation source. The integration of SPE to LEP chip shows high potential of application with several merits because on-chip SPE enables the effective use of sample. In the work an improved LEP chip integrated with SPE was developed for trace lead detection. Chip design and pulse voltage were proposed to eliminate the ash generation and minimize the channel expansion. Some analytical parameters were optimized. With sample volume of 1 mL calibration curve in the range of 0-100 ng/mL the correlation coefficient of 0.992 and limit of detection (LOD) of 0.64 ng/mL were obtained. With the support of SPE, LOD was improved about 30 times.
We study a leptogenesis scenario in which the heavy Majorana neutrinos are produced non-thermally in inflaton decays in the supersymmetric economical SU(3) C ⊗ SU(3) L ⊗ U(1) X model with an inflationary scenario, and for this purpose neutrino masses play the key role. Due to the inflaton with mass in the GUT scale, the model under consideration provides successful neutrino masses, which is different from the ones without the inflationary scenario. The lepton-number-violating interactions among the inflaton and right-handed neutrinos appear at the one-loop level, and this is a reason for the non-thermal leptogenesis scenario. The bound followed from the gravitino abundance and the cosmological constraint on neutrino mass/the neutrino oscillation data is m ν3 0.05 δ eff eV. By taking the reheating temperature as low as T R = 10 6 GeV, we get a limit on the ratio of masses of the light heavies neutrino to those of the inflaton to be M R1 M φ = 0.87.
The RHIC-PHENIX experiment has measured the azimuthal anisotropy parameter v 2 , the second harmonic of the azimuthal distribution, for electrons at mid-rapidity (|η| < 0.35) as a function of transverse momentum (0.5 < p T < 5.0 GeV/c) in Au+Au collisions at √ s NN = 200 GeV. From the result, we have calculated heavy flavour (charm and bottom) electron v 2 by subtracting v 2 of electrons from other sources such as photon conversions and Dalitz decays. At the PHENIX experiment, the nuclear modification factor (R AA ) for the heavy flavour electrons is also measured. The property of the medium-created Au+Au collisions at √ s NN = 200 GeV can be provided to these measurements.
We present a method to implement probabilistic treatment planning of intensitymodulated radiation therapy using custom software plugins in a commercial treatment planning system. Our method avoids the definition of safety-margins by directly including the effect of geometrical uncertainties during optimization when objective functions are evaluated. Because the shape of the resulting dose distribution implicitly defines the robustness of the plan, the optimizer has much more flexibility than with a margin-based approach. We expect that this added flexibility helps to automatically strike a better balance between target coverage and dose reduction for surrounding healthy tissue, especially for cases where the planning target volume overlaps organs at risk. Prostate cancer treatment planning was chosen to develop our method, including a novel technique to include rotational uncertainties. Based on population statistics, translations and rotations are simulated independently following a markerbased IGRT correction strategy. The effects of random and systematic errors are incorporated by first blurring and then shifting the dose distribution with respect to the clinical target volume. For simplicity and efficiency, dose-shift invariance and a rigid-body approximation are assumed. Three prostate cases were replanned using our probabilistic objective functions. To compare clinical and probabilistic plans, an evaluation tool was used that explicitly incorporates geometric uncertainties using Monte-Carlo methods. The new plans achieved similar or better dose distributions than the original clinical plans in terms of expected target coverage and rectum wall sparing. Plan optimization times were only about a factor of two higher than in the original clinical system. In conclusion, we have developed a practical planning tool that enables marginless probability-based treatment planning with acceptable planning times, achieving the first system that is feasible for clinical implementation.
In the hole-doped, high-temperature superconducting cuprates, an intrinsic heterogeneity is found, from the early observations to recent data. Below optimum doping, the heterogeneity consists of dynamic metallic and, at low temperatures, superconducting regions in the form of clusters or stripes, which develop and decay as a function of time and location in the antiferromagnetic lattice. This behaviour is underlined by the interesting linear relation between the oxygen isotope shifts of the magnetic penetration depth and the critical temperature with a slope that is a factor 2 larger than expected for the homogeneous distribution of superfluid density. Allusion is also made to the Bose-Einstein condensation reported in structurally heterogeneous, polycrystalline polymer platelets as well as especially to the heterogeneous distribution of visible and dark matter in the Universe, which point to a change of paradigm in modern physics. perspective
Recent progress in the seismic interpretation of field β Cep stars has resulted in improvements of the physical description in the stellar structure and evolution model computations of massive stars. Further asteroseismic constraints can be obtained from studying ensembles of stars in a young open cluster, which all have similar age, distance, and chemical composition. We present an observational asteroseismology study based on the discovery of numerous multi-periodic and mono-periodic B stars in the open cluster NGC 884. We describe a thorough investigation of the pulsational properties of all B-type stars in the cluster. Overall, our detailed frequency analysis resulted in 115 detected frequencies in 65 stars. We found 36 mono-periodic, 16 bi-periodic, 10 tri-periodic, and 2 quadru-periodic stars and one star with nine independent frequencies. We also derived the amplitudes and phases of all detected frequencies in the U, B, V, and I filter, if available. We achieved unambiguous identifications of the mode degree for 12 of the detected frequencies in nine of the pulsators. Imposing the identified degrees and measured frequencies of the radial, dipole, and quadrupole modes of five pulsators led to a seismic cluster age estimate of log(age/yr) = 7.12-7.28 from a comparison with stellar models. Our study is a proof-of-concept for and illustrates the current status of ensemble asteroseismology of a young open cluster.
We describe a holographic approach to explicitly computing the universal logarithmic contributions to entanglement and Rényi entropies for free conformal scalar and spinor fields on even-dimensional spheres. This holographic derivation proceeds in two steps: first, following Casini and Huerta, a conformal mapping to thermal entropy in a hyperbolic geometry; then identification of the hyperbolic geometry with the conformal boundary of a bulk hyperbolic space and use of an AdS/CFT holographic formula to compute the resultant functional determinant. We explicitly verify the connection with the type-A trace anomaly for the entanglement entropy, whereas the Rényi entropy is computed with the aid of the Sommerfeld formula in order to deal with a conical defect. We show that as a by-product, the log coefficient of the Rényi entropy for round spheres can be efficiently obtained as the q-analog of a procedure similar to the one found by Cappelli and D'Appollonio that rendered the type-A trace anomaly.
By swapping the entanglement of genuine four-particle entangled states, we propose a bidirectional quantum secure communication protocol. The biggest merit of this protocol is that the information leakage does not exist. In addition, the ideas of the "two-step" transmission and the block transmission are employed in this protocol. In order to analyze the security of the second sequence transmission, decoy states are used.
The centers of most known galaxies host supermassive black holes (SMBHs). In orbit around these black holes are a centrally concentrated distribution of stars, both in single and in binary systems. Occasionally, these stars are perturbed onto orbits that bring them close to the SMBH. If the star is in a binary system, the three-body interaction with the SMBH can lead to large changes in orbital energy, depositing one of the two stars on a tightly-bound orbit, and its companion into a hyperbolic orbit that may escape the galaxy. In this Letter, we show that the disruption of solitary stars can also lead to large positive increases in orbital energy. The kick velocity depends on the amount of mass the star loses at pericenter, but not on the ratio of black hole to stellar mass, and are at most the star's own escape velocity. We find that these kicks are usually too small to result in the ejection of stars from the Milky Way, but can eject the stars from the black hole's sphere of influence, reducing their probability of being disrupted again. We estimate that ∼10 5 stars, ∼1% of all stars within 10 pc of the galactic center, are likely to have had mass removed by the central black hole through tidal interaction, and speculate that these "turbovelocity" stars will at first be redder, but eventually bluer, and always brighter than their unharassed peers.
We study and generalize the class of qubit topological stabilizer codes that arise in the Abelian phase of the honeycomb lattice model. The resulting family of codes, which we call 'matching codes' realize the same anyon model as the surface codes, and so may be similarly used in proposals for quantum computation. We show that these codes are particularly well suited to engineering twist defects that behave as Majorana modes. A proof of principle system that demonstrates the braiding properties of the Majoranas is discussed that requires only three qubits.
For every possible spectrum of 2 N -dimensional density operators, we construct an N-qubit X-state of the same spectrum and maximal genuine multipartite (GM-) concurrence, hence characterizing a global unitary transformation that -constrained to output X-states-maximizes the GM-concurrence of an arbitrary input mixed state of N qubits. We also apply semidefinite programming methods to obtain N-qubit X-states with maximal GM-concurrence for a given purity and to provide an alternative proof of optimality of a recently proposed set of density matrices for the purpose, the so-called X-MEMS. Furthermore, we introduce a numerical strategy to tailor a quantum operation that converts between any two given density matrices using a relatively small number of Kraus operators. We apply our strategy to design short operator-sum representations for the transformation between any given N-qubit mixed state and a corresponding X-MEMS of the same purity.
In this paper we introduce a geometric framework for mixed quantum states based on a Kähler structure. The geometric framework includes a symplectic form, an almost complex structure, and a Riemannian metric that characterize the space of mixed quantum states. We argue that the almost complex structure is integrable. We also in detail discuss a visualizing application of this geometric framework by deriving a geometric uncertainty relation for mixed quantum states. The framework is computationally effective and it provides us with a better understanding of general quantum mechanical systems.
There are very few systems of interacting particles (with continuous variables) for which the entanglement of the concomitant eigenfunctions can be computed in an exact, analytical way. Here we present analytical calculations of the amount of entanglement exhibited by s-states of spherium. This is a system of two particles (electrons) interacting via a Coulomb potential and confined to a (d-1)sphere (that is, to the surface of a d-dimensional ball). We investigate the dependence of entanglement on the radius R of the system, on the spatial dimensionality d, and on energy. We find that entanglement increases monotonically with R, decreases with d, and also tends to increase with the energy of the eigenstates. These trends are discussed and compared with those observed in other two-electron atomic-like models where entanglement has been investigated.
We present a substantially improved version of the method proposed by Sawicki et al (2012 Phys. Rev. A 86 040304(R), 2014 Rev. Math. Phys. 26 1450004) for finding critical points of the linear entropy for an L-qubit system. The new approach is based on the correspondence between the momentum maps for abelian and non-abelian groups, as described in Kirwan (1984 Cohomology of Quotients in Symplectic and Algebraic Geometry (Mathematical Notes vol 31) (Princeton: Princeton Univ. Press)). The proposed method can be implemented numerically and is much easier than the previous method.
An SL-invariant extension of the concurrence to higher local Hilbert-space dimension is due to its relation with the determinant of the matrix of a d × d two qudits state, which is the only SL-invariant of polynomial degree d. This determinant is written in terms of antilinear expectation values of the local SL(d) operators. We use the permutation invariance of the comb-condition for creating further local antilinear operators which are orthogonal to the original operator. It means that the symmetric group acts transitively on the space of combs of a given order. This extends the mechanism for writing SL (2)-invariants for qubits to qudits. I outline the method, which in principle works for arbitrary dimension d, explicitly for spin 1 and spin 3/2. There is an odd-even discrepancy: whereas for half odd integer spin a situation similar to that observed for qubits is found, for integer spin the outcome is an asymmetric invariant of polynomial degree 2d.
A compact and tunable size-based flow fractionation microchip using negative dielectrophoresis (DEP) is presented in this paper. In the microchip, a sample containing a mixture of particles is hydrodynamically focused in a contraction section and then sorted by size after flowing over planar interdigitated electrodes. The electrodes and flow chamber were aligned at an angle of 45° to produce effective sorting. 1, 2.5 and 4.8 µm polystyrene (PS) particles were successfully separated into three distinct streams in a short distance (1 mm) and collected in different outlet channels. The sorting was subjected to flow rates and electric potential. The experimental sorting efficiencies of 1, 2.5 and 4.8 µm particles reached 97.2%, 79.6% and 99.8%, respectively. With the same device, lipid vesicle sorting was demonstrated. 86.9% of vesicles larger than 10 µm were effectively extracted from the sample stream. Likewise, sorting of other biological particles can be achieved in the same fashion.
Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interferometry is extensively investigated in a 3D heterostructure magnetic quantum wire. Local magnetic fields are used to coherently manipulate and control a qubit's quantum state. For our numerical calculations, a parabolic confinement is assumed. Energy eigenvalues, nonadiabatic and adiabatic transition probabilities are calculated from the diabatic and adiabatic bases for two-level systems. Here, we show that the spatial crossing between interspin levels becomes a spatial anticrossing if the two spin states are coupled by external fields, and that consequently, due to the spin dependence of the harmonic confinement, it will undergo Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interference. It is shown that the system undergoes nonadiabatic Landau-Zener dynamics for a strong confinement in a strong external field, whereas a weak external field induces adiabatic Landau-Zener transition dynamics. Our system allows the coupling strength between the level states at the anti(crossing) point to be modulated. This system allows one to tune the wire's parabolic confinement potential using experimentally accessible parameters.
We present several multipartite quantum systems featuring the same type of genuine (tripartite) entanglement. Based on a geometric interpretation of the so-called W⟩ and GHZ⟩ states we show that the classification of all multi- partite systems featuring those and only those two classes of genuine entanglement can be deduced from earlier work of algebraic geometers. In this paper, non-entangled pure states are identified with the highest weight orbit of the SLOCC group acting on the corresponding Hilbert space.
The application of quantum mechanics to information related fields such as communication, computation and cryptography is a fast growing line of research that has been witnessing an outburst of theoretical and experimental results, with possible practical applications. On the one hand, quantum cryptography with its impact on secrecy of transmission is having its first important actual implementations; on the other hand, the recent advances in quantum optics, ion trapping, BEC manipulation, spin and quantum dot technologies allow us to put to direct test a great deal of theoretical ideas and results. These achievements have stimulated a reborn interest in various aspects of quantum mechanics, creating a unique interplay between physics, both theoretical and experimental, mathematics, information theory and computer science.
All instances of the vector cross product in the published version should be replaced by the dot product. These instances include, in particular, the definition of the Lindblad operators following equation (1) in section 1; equation (5) in section 2; the second (unnumbered) equation in section 5.1; and the derivation of equation ( 
We analyze positivity of a tensor product of two linear qubit maps, 1 2 Φ ⊗ Φ . Positivity of maps 1 Φ and 2 Φ is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for positivity of 1 2 Φ ⊗ Φ . We find a non-trivial sufficient condition for positivity of the tensor product map beyond the cases when both 1 Φ and 2 Φ are completely positive or completely co-positive. We find necessary and (separately) sufficient conditions for n-tensor-stable positive qubit maps, i.e. such qubit maps Φ that n Φ ⊗ is positive. Particular cases of 2-and 3-tensor-stable positive qubit maps are fully characterized, and the decomposability of 2-tensor-stable positive qubit maps is discussed. The case of non-unital maps is reduced to the case of appropriate unital maps. Finally, n-tensor-stable positive maps are used in characterization of multipartite entanglement, namely, in the entanglement depth detection.
In this work we explore a correspondence between quantum circuits and lowdegree polynomials over the finite field F 2 . Any quantum circuit made up of Hadamard, Z, controlled-Z and controlled-controlled-Z gates gives rise to a degree-3 polynomial over F 2 such that calculating quantum circuit amplitudes is equivalent to counting zeroes of the corresponding polynomial. We exploit this connection, which is especially clean and simple for this particular gate set, in two directions. First, we give proofs of classical hardness results based on quantum circuit concepts. Second, we find efficient classical simulation algorithms for certain classes of quantum circuits based on efficient algorithms for classes of polynomials.
We generalize techniques previously used to compute ground-state properties of one-dimensional noninteracting quantum gases to obtain exact results at finite temperature. We compute the order-n Rényi entropy to all orders in the fugacity in one, two, and three spatial dimensions. In arbitrary spatial dimensions, we provide closed-form expressions for its virial expansion up to next-to-leading order. In all of our results, we find explicit volume scaling in the high-temperature limit.
PT -symmetric quantum mechanics, the extension of conventional quantum mechanics to the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian invariant under the combined parity (P ) and time reversal (T ) symmetry, has been successfully applied to a variety of fields-such as solid state physics, mathematical physics, optics, quantum field theory. Recently, the extension of PT -symmetrical theory to entangled quantum systems has been challenged, in that PT formulation within the conventional Hilbert space violates the no-signaling principle. Here, we revisit the derivation of non-signaling principle in the framework of CPT inner product prescription. Our results preserve the no-signaling principle for a two-qubit system, reaffirm the invariance of the entanglement, and reproduce the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality. We conclude that PT -symmetric quantum mechanics satisfies the requirements for a fundamental theory and provides a consistent description of quantum systems.
The geometric separability probability of composite quantum systems has been extensively studied in the recent decades. One of the simplest but strikingly difficult problem is to compute the separability probability of qubit-qubit and rebit-rebit quantum states with respect to the Hilbert-Schmidt measure. A lot of numerical simulations confirm the P rebit-rebit = 29 64 and P qubit-qubit = 8 33 conjectured probabilities. We provide a rigorous proof for the separability probability in the real case and we give explicit integral formulas for the complex and quaternionic case. Milz and Strunz studied the separability probability with respect to given subsystems. They conjectured that the separability probability of qubit-qubit (and qubit-qutrit) states of the form of
In an article in 2010, Kim et al introduced the definition of Rényi-α entanglement for bipartite quantum states and established an analytic formula of Rényi-α entanglement for arbitrary twoqubit states with α ≥ 1. They also derived a monogamy of entanglement in multi-qubit systems in terms of Rényi-α entanglement for α ≥ 2([J. Phys. A 43, 445305 (2010)]. We find the proofs of Theorems 2 and 3 contain some errors and we also present an improved derivation to overcome this flaw. The alternative derivation shows that the main conclusions remain valid despite the invalidity of the proofs.
In this paper we study the Hamming-like fermionic code encoding three-qubits into sixteen Majorana modes recently introduced by Hastings. We show that although this fermionic code cannot be obtained from a single qubit stabilizer code via the usual procedure however, it can be obtained from two, qubit stabilizer ones via a glueing procedure combining both single and double occupancy embeddings of qubits into fermionic Fock space. This technique identifies the code subspace as a Cartan subspace of the largest exceptional group E 8 . In arriving at these results we develop a general formalism for implementing this glueing procedure via the use of intertwiners between different subsectors of the Fock space realizing embedded qubits.
We study the algebraic structure underlying the quantum circuits composed by c -Z and SWAP gates. Our results are applied to optimize the circuits and to understand the emergence of entanglement when a circuit acts on a fully factorized state.
The largest eigenvalue distribution of the Wishart-Laguerre ensemble, indexed by Dyson parameter β and Laguerre parameter a, is fundamental in multivariate statistics and finds applications in diverse areas. Based on a generalisation of the Selberg integral, we provide an effective recursion scheme to compute this distribution explicitly in both the original model, and a fixed-trace variant, for a, β non-negative integers and finite matrix size. For β = 2 this circumvents known symbolic evaluation based on determinants which become impractical for large dimensions. Our exact results have immediate applications in the areas of multiple channel communication and bipartite entanglement. Moreover, we are also led to the exact solution of a long standing problem of finding a general result for Landauer conductance distribution in a chaotic mesoscopic cavity with two ideal leads. Thus far, exact closed-form results for this were available only in the Fourier-Laplace space or could be obtained on a case-by-case basis.
The three way distributive entanglement is shown to be related to the parallelism of vectors. Using a measurement based approach we form a set of 2-dimensional vectors, representing the post measurement states of one of the parties. These vectors originate at the same point and have an angular distance between them. The area spanned by a pair of such vectors is a measure of the entanglement of formation. This leads to a geometrical manifestation of the 3tangle in 2-dimensions, from an inequality in area which generalizes for nqubits to reveal that the n-tangle also has a planar structure. Quantifying the genuine n-party entanglement in every 1|(n -1) bi-partition, we show that the genuine n-way entanglement does not manifest in n-tangle. A new quantity geometrically similar to 3-tangle is then introduced that represent the genuine n-way entanglement. Extending our formalism to 3-qutrits, we show that the non locality without entanglement arises from a condition under which the post measurement state vectors of a separable state show parallelism. A connection to non trivial sum uncertainty relation analogous to Maccone and Pati uncertainty relation [1] is then shown using decomposition of post measurement state vectors along parallel and perpendicular direction of the pre-measurement state vectors.
Quantum information science and related technologies now involve thousands of researchers worldwide, cutting across physics, chemistry, engineering, bioscience, applied mathematics and computer science, extending from fundamental science to novel applications and industry. This situation defines the scope and mission of Quantum Science and Technology, a new IOP journal serving the interests of this multidisciplinary field by publishing research of the highest quality and impact.
Randomized benchmarking is an important protocol for robustly characterizing the error rates of quantum gates. The technique is typically applied to the Clifford gates since they form a group that satisfies a convenient technical condition of forming a unitary 2-design, in addition to having a tight connection to fault-tolerant quantum computing and an efficient classical simulation. In order to achieve universal quantum computing one must add at least one additional gate such as the Tgate (also known as the π/8 gate). Here we propose and analyze a simple variation of the standard interleaved RB protocol that can accurately estimate the average fidelity of the Tgate while retaining the many advantages of a unitary 2-design and the fidelity guarantees that such a design delivers, as well as the efficient classical simulation property of the Clifford group. Our work complements prior methods that have succeeded in estimating Tgate fidelities, but only by relaxing the 2-design constraint and using a more complicated data analysis.
NP-hard optimization problems scale very rapidly with problem size, becoming unsolvable with brute force methods, even with supercomputing resources. Typically, such problems have been approximated with heuristics. However, these methods still take a long time and are not guaranteed to find an optimal solution. Quantum computing offers the possibility of producing significant speed-up and improved solution quality. Current quantum annealing (QA) devices are designed to solve difficult optimization problems, but they are limited by hardware size and qubit connectivity restrictions. We present a novel heterogeneous computing stack that combines QA and classical machine learning, allowing the use of QA on problems larger than the hardware limits of the quantum device. These results represent experiments on a real-world problem represented by the weighted k-clique problem. Through this experiment, we provide insight into the state of quantum machine learning.
Before executing a quantum algorithm, one must first decompose the algorithm into machine-level instructions compatible with the architecture of the quantum computer, a process known as quantum compiling. There are many different quantum circuit decompositions for the same algorithm but it is desirable to compile leaner circuits. A fundamentally important cost metric is the T count -the number of T gates in a circuit. For the single qubit case, optimal compiling is essentially a solved problem. However, multi-qubit compiling is a harder problem with optimal algorithms requiring classical runtime exponential in the number of qubits. Here, we present and compare several efficient quantum compilers for multi-qubit Clifford + T circuits. We implemented our compilers in C++ and benchmarked them on random circuits, from which we determine that our TODD compiler yields the lowest T counts on average. We also benchmarked TODD on a library of reversible logic circuits that appear in quantum algorithms and found that it reduced the T count for 97% of the circuits with an average T -count saving of 20% when compared against the best of all previous circuit decompositions.
} is estimated from the measurements. These estimates are then mapped to the output space through classical post-processing function f. For a supervised model, this output is the forecast associated to input x. Generative models can be expressed in this framework with small adaptations.
of diffusion and ionic conduction in solids.
A calculation of the lattice energies involved in the displacements of Fe3-and Cr3+ ions off the regular cation site in SrO is described. The model used comprises an Fe06 or CrOd cluster, in which individual ionic interactions are considered using the simple shell model, surrounded by a polarisable continuum. It is predicted that Fe3" ions should be offcentre along (110) directions, whilst Cr". ions remain on-centre, consistent with experiment,
We analyze the optical quantum control of impurity spins in proximity to a quantum dot. A laser pulse creates an exciton in the dot and controls the spins by indirect coupling. We show how to determine the control parameters using as an illustration the production of maximal spin entanglement. We consider errors in the quantum control due to the exciton radiative recombination. The control errors in the adiabatic and nonadiabatic case are compared to the threshold needed for scalable quantum computing.
In this work we derive ultrafast shortcuts for adiabatic rapid passage for a qubit where the only control variable is the longitudinal z field, while the transverse x field remains constant. This restrictive framework is pertinent to some important tasks in quantum computing, for example, the design of a high fidelity controlled-PHASE gate can be mapped to the adiabatic quantum control of such a qubit. We study this problem in the adiabatic reference frame and with appropriately rescaled time, using as control input the derivative of the total field polar angle (with respect to rescaled time). We first show that a constant pulse can achieve perfect adiabatic rapid passage at only specific times, corresponding to resonant shortcuts to adiabaticity. We next show that, by using "on-off-on-...-on-off-on" pulse sequences with appropriate characteristics (amplitude, timing, and number of pulses), a perfect fidelity can be obtained for every duration larger than the limit π/ , where is the constant transverse x field. We provide equations from which these characteristics can be calculated. The proposed methodology for generalized resonant shortcuts exploits the advantages of composite pulses in the rescaled time, while the corresponding control z field varies continuously and monotonically in the original time. Of course, as the total duration approaches the lower limit, the changes in the control signal become more abrupt. These results are not restricted only to quantum information processing applications, but is also expected to impact other areas, where adiabatic rapid passage is used.
In one-out-of-m spacetime-constrained oblivious transfer (SCOT), Alice and Bob agree on m pairwise spacelike separated output spacetime regions R 0 , R 1 , . . . , R m-1 in an agreed reference frame in a spacetime that is Minkowski, or close to Minkowski; Alice inputs a message x i in the causal past of a spacetime point
In this paper, we propose a protocol to realize the conversions between Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states and W states of spin qubits. By analyzing and simplifying the dynamics of the system, the control fields are designed via the inverse Hamiltonian engineering based on the Lie transforms. Moreover, the states' conversions between multitype GHZ states and W states can be executed deterministically and reversibly, which makes the protocol resource saving and flexible. We show in numerical simulations that the state conversions are robust against the systematic errors, random noise, and frequency mismatching of the control fields. Therefore, the protocol may provide some useful prospectives to the research of quantum mechanics and applications of quantum information processing based on GHZ states and W states.
Semiconductor double quantum-dot hybrid qubits are promising candidates for high-fidelity quantum computing. However, their performance is limited by charge noise, which is ubiquitous in solid-state devices, and phonon-induced dephasing. Here we explore methods for improving the quantum operations of a hybrid qubit, using strong microwave driving to enable gate operations that are much faster than decoherence processes. Using numerical simulations and a theoretical method based on a cumulant expansion, we analyze qubit dynamics in the presence of 1/ f charge noise, which forms the dominant decoherence mechanism in many solid-state devices. We show that, while strong-driving effects and charge noise both reduce the quantum gate fidelity, simple pulse-shaping techniques effectively suppress the strong-driving effects. Moreover, a broad AC sweet spot emerges when the detuning parameter and the tunneling coupling are driven simultaneously. Taking into account phonon-mediated noise, we find that it should be possible to achieve X π gates with fidelities higher than 99.9%.
Quantum algorithms for molecular electronic structure have been developed with lower computational scaling than their classical counterparts, but emerging quantum hardware is far from being capable of the coherence, connectivity, and gate errors required for their experimental realization. Here we propose a class of quantumclassical hybrid algorithms that computes the energy from a two-electron reduced density matrix (2-RDM). The 2-RDM is constrained by N-representability conditions, constraints for representing an N-electron wave function, which mitigate noise from the quantum circuit. We compute the strongly correlated dissociation of doublet H 3 into three hydrogen atoms. The hybrid quantum-classical computer matches the energies from full configuration interaction to 0.1 kcal/mol, one-tenth of "chemical accuracy," even in the strongly correlated limit of dissociation. Furthermore, the spatial locality of the computed one-electron RDM reveals that the quantum computer accurately predicts the Mott metal-insulator transition.
A three-level atom in configuration is reduced to an effective two-level system, under appropriate conditions, and its PT symmetric properties are investigated. This effective qubit system, when subjected to a beam-splitter type of interaction, provides the scope of directly (indirectly) probing the nonclassical properties of the output (input) state. Here, we study nonclassical properties of the output state by using some well-known measures of nonclassical correlations like the measurement-induced disturbance, concurrence, and negativity. The nonclassical features are found to enhance in the PT symmetric (PTS) phase compared to the PT symmetry broken (PTB) phase. Further, the output ports of the beam splitter are subjected to different quantum noise channels, both non-Markovian, e.g., random telegraph noise as well as Markovian, e.g., phase damping and amplitude damping noise. The application of noise channels is found to decrease the degree of nonclassicality, though continuing to exhibit distinct behavior in PTS and PTB phases, with the dominant behavior appearing in the former case. Further, the results are compared with the case when dynamics is governed by a Hermitian Hamiltonian. This allows one to demarcate the contributions to nonclassicality from different types of dynamics.
We investigate the maximum purity that can be achieved by k-uniform mixed states of N parties. Such Nparty states have the property that all their k-party reduced states are maximally mixed. A scheme to construct explicitly k-uniform states using a set of specific N-qubit Pauli matrices is proposed. We provide several different examples of such states and demonstrate that in some cases the state corresponds to a particular orthogonal array. The obtained states, despite being mixed, reveal strong nonclassical properties such as genuine multipartite entanglement or violation of Bell inequalities.
Photon antibunching based on a single two-level atom strongly coupled to a single-mode optical cavity has been demonstrated in experiments. Here, we put forward an improved version of such an antibunching by introducing a pump field and a microwave field in the coupled atom-cavity system to form both a threelevel -type transition and closed-loop coupling. Via calculating the zero-time-delay second-order correlation function g (2) (0) of the single-mode cavity field, we find that a complete photon blockade, namely, g (2) (0) = 0, can be well achieved without detuning the driving and cavity resonance. In addition, it is clearly shown that this strong photon antibunching effect appears in the weak-coupling regime of light-atom interactions. The enhanced photon antibunching is ascribed to quantum interference between the two transition paths from the three-level atom weakly coupled to the three involved fields (cavity, pump, and microwave). Our proposal is useful for the single-photon generation by photon blockade, which has applications in quantum information processing.
We use quantum optimal control to identify fast collision-based two-qubit √ SWAP gates in ultracold atoms. We show that a significant speedup can be achieved by optimizing the full gate instead of separately optimizing the merge-wait-separate sequence of the trapping potentials. Our optimal strategy does not rely on the atoms populating the lowest eigenstates of the merged potential, and it crucially includes the accumulation of quantum phases before the potentials are fully merged. Our analyses transcend the particular trapping geometry, but for comparison with previous works, we present systematic results for an optical lattice and find greatly improved gate durations and fidelities.
Quantum teleportation with a two-qubit state can be suitably characterized in terms of maximal fidelity and fidelity deviation-the former is the maximal value of the average fidelity achievable within the standard protocol and local unitary operations and the latter is the standard deviation of fidelity over all input states. In this paper, we consider the problem of characterizing two-qubit states that are optimal for quantum teleportation for a given value of some state property. The optimal states are defined as those states that, for a given value of the state property under consideration, achieve the largest maximal fidelity and also exhibit zero fidelity deviation. We provide a complete characterization of optimal states for a given linear entropy, maximum mean value of the Bell-Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) observable, and concurrence, respectively. We find that for a given linear entropy or Bell-CHSH violation the largest maximal fidelity states are optimal, but for a given concurrence the optimal states form a strict subset of the largest maximal fidelity states.
The family of n-bit Toffoli gates, with the two-bit Toffoli gate as the figurehead, are of great interest in quantum information as they can be used as universal gates and in quantum error correction, among other things. We present a single-step implementation of arbitrary n-bit Toffoli gates (up to a local change of basis), based on resonantly driving a single qubit that has a strong Ising coupling to n other qubits. The setup in the two-qubit case turns out to be identical to the universal Barenco gate. The gate time and error are, in theory, independent of the number of control qubits, scaling better than conventional circuit decompositions. We note that our assumptions, namely, strongly coupling n + 1 qubits and a driving frequency that scales with n, may break down for large systems. Still, our protocol could enhance the capabilities of intermediate-scale quantum computers, and we discuss the prospects of implementing our protocol on trapped ions, Rydberg atoms, and superconducting circuits. Simulations of the latter platform show that the Toffoli gate with two control bits attains fidelities of above 0.98 even in the presence of decoherence. We also show how similar ideas can be used to make a series of controlled-NOT gates in a single step. We show how these can speed up the implementation of quantum error correcting codes and we simulate the encoding steps of the three-qubit bit-flip code and the seven-qubit Steane code.
The Rydberg blockade mechanism is now routinely considered for entangling qubits encoded in clock states of neutral atoms. Challenges towards implementing entangling gates with high fidelity include errors due to thermal motion of atoms, laser amplitude inhomogeneities, and imperfect Rydberg blockade. We show that adiabatic rapid passage by Rydberg dressing provides a mechanism for implementing two-qubit entangling gates by accumulating phases that are robust to these imperfections. We find that the typical error in implementing a two-qubit gate, such as the controlled phase gate, is dominated by errors in the single-atom light shift, and that this can be easily corrected using adiabatic dressing interleaved with a simple spin echo sequence. This results in a two-qubit Mølmer-Sørensen gate. A gate fidelity ∼0.995 is achievable with modest experimental parameters and a path to higher fidelities is possible for Rydberg states in atoms with a stronger blockade, longer lifetimes, and larger Rabi frequencies.
In this article, we consider the monogamy relations for the generalized W -class states. Here we first present an analytical formula on Tsallis-q entanglement (TqEE) and Tsallis-q entanglement of assistance (TqEEoA) of a reduced density matrix for a generalized W -class state. By using the analytical formula, we present a monogamy relation in terms of the squared TqEE for a generalized W -class state. Then we present generalized monogamy relations in terms of TqEE for a generalized W -class state. We also present a monogamy relation in terms of an arbitrary power of TqEE for a generalized W -class state. Last, we apply our results to quantum games and present the bound of the nonclassicality of the quantum games when restricting to the generalized W -class states.
The achievement of quantum supremacy boosted the need for a robust medium of quantum information. In this task, higher-dimensional qudits show remarkable noise tolerance and enhanced security for quantum key distribution applications. However, to exploit the advantages of such states, we need a thorough characterization of their entanglement. Here, we propose a measure of entanglement which can be computed for either pure or mixed states of a M-qudit hybrid system. The entanglement measure is based on a distance deriving from an adapted application of the Fubini-Study metric. This measure is invariant under local unitary transformations and has an explicit computable expression that we derive. In the specific case of M-qubit systems, the measure assumes the physical interpretation of an obstacle to the minimum distance between infinitesimally close states. Finally, we quantify the robustness of entanglement of a state through the eigenvalue analysis of the metric tensor associated with it.
The W state is a symmetrically entangled multipartite state where a single excitation is shared by all parties. It is an important resource for various quantum algorithms and communication systems, and hence, its preparation is of immense interest to the quantum information community. We examine here a deterministic scheme to prepare a W state of an n-qubit system with all-to-all pairwise exchange interaction between n qubits. This relies on sharing superposed excitations of a smaller number of q qubits among others. We present a bound on the maximal jumps from q to n and formalize a scheme to generate the W n state in O(log n) stages. We demonstrate this scheme in the context of spin-torque-based quantum computing architecture that is characterized by repeated interactions between static and flying qubits.
Quantum coherence is a crucial resource for quantum information processing. By employing the language of coherence orders largely applied in NMR systems, quantum coherence has been currently addressed in terms of multiple quantum coherences (MQCs). Here we investigate α-MQCs, a class of multiple quantum coherences which is based on α-relative purity, an information-theoretic quantifier analogous to quantum fidelity and closely related to Rényi relative entropy of order α. Our framework enables linking α-MQCs to Wigner-Yanase-Dyson skew information, an asymmetry monotone-finding application in quantum thermodynamics and quantum metrology. Furthermore, we derive a family of bounds on α-MQCs, particularly showing that α-MQCs define a lower bound to quantum Fisher information. We illustrate these ideas for quantum systems described by single-qubit states, two-qubit Bell-diagonal states, and a wide class of multiparticle mixed states. Finally, we investigate the time evolution of the α-MQC spectrum and the overall signal of relative purity by simulating the time-reversal dynamics of a many-body all-to-all Ising Hamiltonian and comment on applications to physical platforms such as NMR systems, trapped ions, and ultracold atoms.
We obtain exact dynamics of a two-qubit central spin model (CSM) consisting of two interacting qubits homogeneously coupled to a spin bath via the X X Z-type coupling, with the bath initially prepared in linear superpositions of the symmetric Dicke states. Using the interaction picture Hamiltonian with respect to the non-spin-flipping part of the model, we derive a sequence of equations of motion within each magnetization sector satisfied by the probability amplitudes of the time-evolved state. These equations of motion admit analytical solutions for the single-qubit CSM in which one of the two central qubits decouples from the rest of the system. Based on this, we provide a quantitative interpretation to the observed collapse-revival phenomena in the single-qubit Rabi oscillations when the bath is prepared in the spin coherent state. We then study the disentanglement and coherence dynamics of two initially entangled noninteracting qubits when the two qubits interact with individual baths or with a common bath. For individual baths, the coherent dynamics is found to be positively correlated to the single-qubit purity dynamics, and entanglement sudden disappearance and revivals are observed in both cases. The entanglement creation of two initially separable qubits coupled to a common bath is also studied and collapse and revival behaviors in the entanglement dynamics are observed. Choosing the equally weighted state and the W -class states as the bath initial states, we finally study the dynamics of entanglement between two individual bath spins and demonstrate the entanglement sharing mechanism in such a system.
The logarithmic negativity of a bipartite quantum state is a widely employed entanglement measure in quantum information theory due to the fact that it is easy to compute and serves as an upper bound on distillable entanglement. More recently, the κ entanglement of a bipartite state was shown to be an entanglement measure that is both easily computable and has a precise information-theoretic meaning, being equal to the exact entanglement cost of a bipartite quantum state when the free operations are those that completely preserve the positivity of the partial transpose [Xin Wang and Mark M. Wilde, Phys. Rev. Lett. 125, 040502 ( 
Schrödinger-cat states are useful for many applications, ranging from quantum-information processing to high-precision measurements. In this paper we propose a method for creating such cat states, based on photonassisted Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interferometry in a hybrid system consisting of a qubit coupled to a photon cavity. We show that by initializing the qubit in one of its basis states, performing three consecutive sweeps of the qubit energy splitting across the 1-photon resonance, and finally projecting the qubit to the same basis state, the parity of the photon field can be purified to very high degree; when the initial photon state is a coherent state, the final state will then be very close to a Schrödinger-cat state. We present numerical simulations that confirm that our protocol could work with high fidelity (∼0.99) for coherent states of reasonable size (|α| 2 ∼ 10). Furthermore, we suggest that our protocol can also be used to transfer quantum information between the qubit and a superposition of orthogonal cat states in the cavity.
We have become aware of errors in the proof of the lower bound on the gap, presented in Sec. II. Most importantly, it is not correct to apply Eq. ( 
Source-independent quantum networks are considered as a natural generalization to the Bell scenario where we investigate the nonlocal properties of quantum states distributed and measured in a network. Considering the simplest network of entanglement swapping, recently Gisin et al. [Phys. Rev. A 96, 020304(R) (2017)] and Andreoli [New. J. Phys. 19, 113020 ( 
Quantum device characterization via state tomography plays an important role in both validating quantum hardware and processing quantum information, but it needs the exponential number of the measurements. For the systems with XX+YY-type couplings and Z readouts, such as superconducting quantum computing (SQC) systems, traditional quantum state tomography (QST) using single-qubit readout operations at least requires 3 n measurement settings in reconstructing an n-qubit state. In this paper, I propose an improved QST by adding two-qubit evolutions as the readout operations and obtain an optimal tomographic scheme using the integer programming optimization. I, respectively, apply the alternative scheme on SQC systems with the nearest-neighbor, two-dimensional, and all-to-all connectivities on qubits. It shows that this method can reduce the number of measurements by over 60% compared with the traditional QST. In addition, comparison with the traditional scheme in the experimental feasibility and robustness against errors was made by numerical simulation. It is found that the alternative scheme has good implementability and can achieve comparable or even better accuracy than the traditional scheme. It is expected that the experimentalist from related fields can directly utilize the ready-made results for reconstructing quantum states involved in their research.
We propose a high-rate generation method of optical Schrödinger cat states. Thus far, photon subtraction from squeezed vacuum states has been a standard method in cat-state generation, but its constraints on experimental parameters limit the generation rate. In this paper, we consider the state generation by photon number measurement in one mode of two-mode Gaussian states, which is a generalization of conventional photon subtraction, and derive the conditions to generate high-fidelity and large-amplitude cat states. Our method relaxes the constraints on experimental parameters, allowing us to optimize them and attain a high generation rate. Supposing realistic experimental conditions, the generation rate of cat states with large amplitudes (|α| 2) can exceed megacounts per second, about 10 3 to 10 6 times better than typical rates of conventional photon subtraction. This rate would be improved further by the progress of related technologies. The ability to generate non-Gaussian states at a high rate is important in quantum computing using optical continuous variables, where scalability has been demonstrated but preparation of non-Gaussian states of light remains as a challenging task for universality and fault tolerance. Our proposal reduces the difficulty of the state preparation and opens a way for practical applications in quantum optics.
While the Rydberg-blockade regime provides the natural setting for creating W -type entanglement with cold neutral atoms, it is demonstrated here that a scalable entanglement resource of this type can even be obtained under completely different physical circumstances. To be more precise, a special instance of twisted W states-namely, π -twisted ones-can be engineered in one-dimensional arrays of cold neutral atoms with Rydberg-dressed resonant dipole-dipole interaction. In particular, it is shown here that this is possible even when a (dressed) Rydberg excitation is coupled to the motional degrees of freedom of atoms in their respective, nearly harmonic optical-dipole microtraps, which are quantized into dispersionless (zero-dimensional) bosons. For a specially chosen ("sweet-spot") detuning of the off-resonant dressing lasers from the relevant internal atomic transitions, the desired π -twisted W state of Rydberg-dressed qubits is the ground state of the effective excitation-boson Hamiltonian of the system in a broad window of the relevant parameters. Being at the same time separated from the other eigenstates by a gap equal to the single-boson energy, this W state can be prepared using a Rabi-type driving protocol. The corresponding preparation times are independent of the system size and several orders of magnitude shorter than the effective lifetimes of the relevant atomic states.
We study a single-photon transmission through a one-dimensional N-qubit chain. The qubits are supposed to be identical with equal distance between neighbors. We express the transfer matrix of the N-qubit chain in terms of Chebyshev polynomials, which allows us to obtain simple expressions for the transmission and reflection amplitudes for arbitrarily large N. If the distance between neighbor qubits is equal to a half wavelength, then the transmission spectrum exhibits a flat band gap structure with very steep walls. We show that, for odd N, the tuning of the excitation frequency of a central qubit gives rise to the appearance within a band gap of a narrow resonance with a full transmission. The position of the resonance and its width can be monitored with the frequency of a central qubit. We show that the formation of the band gap and the transmission resonance result from the overlapping the widths of individual qubits, which is due to the strong coupling between qubits and waveguide photons.
Macrorealistic description governing the classical realm is known to get uprooted in the quantum domain. The Leggett-Garg inequality [A.
Motivated by the parton picture of high-energy quantum chromodynamics, we develop a single-particle digitization strategy for the efficient quantum simulation of relativistic scattering processes in a d + 1-dimensional scalar φ 4 field theory. We work out quantum algorithms for initial state preparation, time evolution, and final state measurements. We outline a nonperturbative renormalization strategy in this single-particle framework.
Spin systems such as silicon and nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond, quantum dots, and quantum dot molecules coupled to optical cavities appear to be key elements for creating quantum networks by not only constituting the nodes of the network but also assisting the creation of photonic networks. Here we study the deterministic preparation of arbitrary-size W states with spin systems. We present an efficient operation on three qubits, with two being the logical qubits and one being the ancillary qubit, where no interaction between the logical qubits is required. The proposed operation can create a W -type Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) pair from two separable qubits and expand that EPR pair or an arbitrary-size W state by one, creating a W -like state. Taking this operation as the fundamental building block, we show how to create a large-scale W state out of separable qubits or double the size of a W state. Based on this operation and focusing on nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond as an exemplary spin system, we propose a setup for preparing W states of circularly polarized photons, assisted by a single-spin qubit, where no photon-photon interactions are required. Next, we propose a setup for preparing W states of spin qubits of spatially separated systems, assisted by a single photon. We also analyze the effects of possible imperfections in implementing the gates on the fidelity of the generated W states. In our setups, neither postmeasurement nor postprocessing the states of spin or photonic qubit is required. Our setups can be implemented with current technology, and we anticipate that they will contribute to quantum science and technologies.
Conditional multiqubit gates are a key component for elaborate quantum algorithms. In a recent work, Rasmussen et al. [Phys. Rev. A 101, 022308 (2020)] proposed an efficient single-step method for a prototypical multiqubit gate, a Toffoli gate, based on a combination of Ising interactions between control qubits and an appropriate driving field on a target qubit. Trapped ions are a natural platform to implement this method, since Ising interactions mediated by phonons have been demonstrated in increasingly large ion crystals. However, the simultaneous application of these interactions and the driving field required for the gate results in undesired entanglement between the qubits and the motion of the ions, reducing the gate fidelity. In this work, we propose a solution based on adiabatic switching of these phonon-mediated Ising interactions. We study the effects of imperfect ground-state cooling and use spin-echo techniques to undo unwanted phase accumulation in the achievable fidelities. For gates coupling to all axial modes of a linear crystal, we calculate high-fidelity (>99%) N-qubit rotations with N = 3-7 ions cooled to their ground state of motion and a gate time below 1 ms. Finally, we study the effect of laser intensity fluctuations and find that the proposed gate requires intensity stabilization with subpercentage noise levels. The high fidelities obtained also for large crystals could make the gate competitive with gate-decomposed, multistep variants of the N-qubit Toffoli gate, at the expense of requiring ground-state cooling of the ion crystal.
Using the quantum teleportation in continuous variables as a test scheme, we compare two entangled transformations-mixing of signals on a beam splitter and by the controlled-Z (CZ) operation. We evaluate these transformations in terms of the errors added to teleported oscillators. We have shown that the CZ operation leads to the lower error of teleportation. This error can be further reduced by choosing appropriate weight coefficients for the CZ transforms. We have compared the errors of the theoretical CZ scheme and its practical implementation in the optical design. Although the CZ optical scheme adds intrinsic noise to the overall transformation, it is nevertheless possible to specify the parameters which provides a gain in comparison with the traditional teleportation protocol.
We apply a modified version of the multistate contracted variational quantum eigensolver method to calculate vibrational eigenstates of CO 2 on a quantum computer. A two-mode model of CO 2 is employed, and the vibrational wave function is expanded using three harmonic-oscillator basis functions for each mode. The wave functions are mapped to four qubits by a compact mapping method. The Hamiltonian matrix elements are evaluated on a simulator including noise and on a quantum computer available at IBM Quantum, while the Hamiltonian matrix is diagonalized on a classical computer. We propose an error mitigation method by which the shift of the numerical values of the matrix elements originating from the noise can be corrected, and examine the dependence of the statistical uncertainties on the number of executions of each quantum circuit. We find that, at about 8 × 10 6 executions, the energy eigenvalues of the Fermi resonance states in CO 2 can be obtained with an uncertainty within 1 cm -1 .
If two identical copies of a completely depolarizing channel are put into a superposition of their possible causal orders, they can transmit nonzero classical information. Here we study how well we can transmit classical information with N depolarizing channels put in superposition of M causal orders via a quantum SWITCH. We calculate the Holevo quantity if the superposition uses only cyclic permutations of channels and find that it increases with M and it is independent of N. For a qubit it never reaches 1 if we are increasing M. On the other hand, the classical capacity decreases with the dimension d of the message system. Further, for N = 3 and 4 we studied the superposition of all causal orders and uniformly superposed causal orders belonging to different cosets created by a cyclic permutation subgroup.
We investigate the Bose-Hubbard chain in the presence of nearest-neighbor pairing. The pairing term gives rise to an unusual gapped Z 2 Ising phase that has number fluctuation but no off-diagonal long range order. This phase has a strongly correlated many-body doubly degenerate ground state which is effectively a gap-protected macroscopic qubit. In the strongly interacting limit, the system can be mapped onto an anisotropic transverse spin chain, which in turn can be mapped to the better-known fermionic sister of the paired Bose-Hubbard chain: the Kitaev chain which hosts zero-energy Majorana bound states. While corresponding phases in the fermionic and bosonic systems have starkly different wave functions, they share identical energy spectra. We describe a possible cold-atom realization of the paired Bose-Hubbard model in a biased zigzag optical lattice with reservoir-induced pairing, opening a possible route towards experimental Kitaev chain spectroscopy.
Qubits encoded in hyperfine states of trapped ions are ideal for quantum computation given their long lifetimes and low sensitivity to magnetic fields, yet they suffer from off-resonant scattering during detection, often limiting their measurement fidelity. In 171 Yb + this is exacerbated by a low fluorescence yield, which leads to a need for complex and expensive hardware, a problematic bottleneck especially when scaling up the number of qubits. We demonstrate a detection routine based on electron shelving to address this issue in 171 Yb + and achieve a 5.6× reduction in single-ion detection error on an avalanche photodiode to 1.8(2) × 10 -3 in a 100 μs detection period and a 4.3× error reduction on an electron multiplying CCD camera with 7.7(2) × 10 -3 error in 400 μs. We further improve the characterization of a repump transition at 760 nm to enable a more rapid reset of the auxiliary 2 F 7/2 states populated after shelving. Finally, we examine the detection fidelity limit using the long-lived 2 F 7/2 state, achieving further 300× and 12× reductions in error to 6(7) × 10 -6 and 6.3(3) × 10 -4 in 1 ms on the respective detectors. While shelving-rate limited in our setup, we suggest various techniques to realize this detection method at speeds compatible with quantum information processing, providing a pathway to ultrahighfidelity detection in 171 Yb + .
We describe a quantum algorithm to estimate the α-Renyi entropy of an unknown density matrix ρ ∈ C d×d for α = 1 by combining the recent technique of quantum singular value transformations with the method of estimating normalized traces in the one clean qubit model. We consider an oracular input model where the input state is prepared via a quantum oracle that outputs a purified version of the state, assumed to be nonsingular. Our method outputs an estimate of the α-Renyi entropy to additive precision , using an expected total number O( 1 (x ) 2 ) of independent applications of a quantum circuit which coherently queries the input unitary O( 1 δ log d ) times, in each case measuring a single output qubit. Here δ is a lower cutoff on the smallest eigenvalue of ρ and x = 1 d Tr(ρ α ). The expected number of measurements made in this method can be compared to results in the sample complexity model that generally require ( d 2 2 ) samples. Furthermore, we also show that multiplicative approximations can be obtained by iteratively using additive approximations, with an overhead logarithmic in the dimension d.
A scheme is presented for generation of a multipartite W state for an arbitrary number of qubits. Based on a recent proposal of entanglement without touching, it serves to demonstrate the potential of particle indistinguishability as a useful resource of entanglement for practical applications. The devised scheme is efficient in design, meaning that it is built with linear optics without the need for auxiliary particles nor measurements. Yet, the success probability is shown to be highly competitive compared with the existing proposals (i.e., decreases polynomially with the number of qubits) and remains insensitive to particle statistics (i.e., has the same efficiency for bosons and fermions).
Given their potential for fault-tolerant operations, topological quantum states are currently a focus of intense activity. Of particular interest are topological quantum error correction codes, such as the surface and planar stabilizer codes that are equivalent to the celebrated toric code. While every stabilizer state maps to a graph state under local Clifford operations, the graphs associated with topological stabilizer codes remain unknown. We show that the toric code graph is composed of only two kinds of subgraphs: star graphs (which encode Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states) and half graphs. The topological order is identified with the existence of multiple star graphs, which reveals a connection between the repetition and toric codes. The graph structure readily yields a log-depth quantum circuit for state preparation, assuming geometrically nonlocal gates, which can be reduced to a constant depth including ancillae and measurements at the cost of increasing the circuit width. The results provide a graph-theoretic framework for the investigation of topological order and the development of topological error correction codes.
We consider the quantum Rabi model as an open system that is subject to dissipation, dephasing, and sinusoidal qubit driving. One can change to an interaction picture where the qubit-driving term disappears at the expense of changing the free energy of the qubit which becomes time dependent. If the driving frequency is large with respect to the rest of the parameters with the exception of the driving strength, then one can obtain an effective Hamiltonian that accurately describes the dynamics of the system. The driving has two effects: the qubit-transition frequency is changed and the qubit has reduced dephasing. The driving strength can be chosen so that the qubit-transition frequency is reduced, made equal to zero, or even made negative so that the excited and ground states of the qubit are interchanged. Therefore, sinusoidal qubit driving offers another method to control the qubit-transition frequency and to reduce qubit dephasing. Adjusting the driving strength allows one to consider a qubit with degenerate energy levels. Not taking dissipation into account, the evolution operator of the qubit-harmonic oscillator system is given by a linear combination of the orthogonal projectors onto the eigenstates of σx followed by the evolution operator of a forced harmonic oscillator, the harmonic oscillator can be prepared in such a way that it is always found in a Schrödinger cat state, and the transition probability of the qubit can exhibit a collapse-revival behavior. In addition, the Born-Markov-secular master equation is deduced and the effects of dissipation are presented. In particular, smaller ultrastrong-coupling values are preferable over larger ultrastrong-coupling values and deep strong-coupling values in order to have long-lived, easily distinguishable Schrödinger cat states because the decoherence rate is inversely proportional to the square of the coupling. Finally, the qubit-harmonic oscillator system can be prepared in highly entangled states that are stable under dissipation.
Network Bell experiments reveal a form of nonlocality conceptually different from standard Bell nonlocality. Standard multiparty Bell experiments involve a single source shared by a set of observers. In contrast network Bell experiments feature multiple independent sources and each of them may distribute physical systems to a set of observers who perform randomly chosen measurements. The n-locality scenario in star-network configuration is an instance of network Bell experiment. Such a scenario involves n number of edge observers (Alices) a central observer (Bob) and n number of independent sources having no prior correlation. Each Alice shares an independent state with the central observer Bob. Usually in network Bell experiments one considers that each party measures only two observables. In this work we propose a nontrivial generalization of n-locality scenario in star-network configuration where each Alice performs some integer m number of binary-outcome measurements and the central party Bob performs 2 m-1 measurements. We derive a family of generalized n-locality inequalities for any arbitrary m. Using an elegant sum-of-squares approach we derive the optimal quantum violation of the aforementioned inequalities when each and every Alice measures m number of mutually anticommuting observables. For m = 2 and 3 one obtains the optimal quantum value with a two-qubit entangled state shared between each Alice and Bob. We further demonstrate that the optimal quantum violation of n-locality inequality for any arbitrary m can be obtained when every Alice shares m/2 copies of two-qubit maximally entangled state with the central party Bob. We also argue that for m > 3 a single copy of a two-qubit-entangled state may not be enough to exhibit the violation of n-locality inequality but multiple copies of it can activate the quantum violation. We discuss the implications of our study and raise some open questions.
Preserving entanglement is a crucial dynamical process for entanglement-based quantum computation and quantum-information processes, such as one-way quantum computing and quantum key distribution. However, the problem of quantifying the ability of an experimental process to preserve two-qubit entanglement in experimentally feasible ways is not well understood. Accordingly, herein, we consider the use of two measures, namely composition and robustness, for quantitatively characterizing the ability of a process to preserve entanglement, referred to henceforth as entanglement preservability. A fidelity benchmark is additionally derived to identify the ability of a process to preserve entanglement. We show that the measures and introduced benchmark are experimentally feasible and require only local measurements on single qubits and preparations of separable states. Moreover, they are applicable to all physical processes that can be described using the general theory of quantum operations, e.g., qubit dynamics in photonic and superconducting systems. Our method extends the existing tools for analyzing channels, e.g., channel resource theory, to quantify entanglement preservability for non-trace-preserving quantum processes. The results are of significant interest for applications in quantuminformation processing in which entanglement preservation is required.
We study bidirectional teleportation while explicitly taking into account a mixed environment. This environment initially causes pure dephasing decoherence of the Bell state which assists teleportation. We find that when teleportation is performed in one direction it is accompanied by a transfer of correlations into the teleported qubit state. In the other direction, if no new decoherence process occurs then not only the state of the qubit, but also its correlations with the environment are teleported with unit fidelity. These processes do not depend on the measurement outcome during teleportation and do not differentiate between classical and quantum decoherence. If, on the other hand, the second teleportation step is preceded by decoherence of the Bell state then the situation is much more complicated. Teleportation and transfer of correlations occur simultaneously, yielding different teleported qubit-environment states for different measurement outcomes. These states can differ in the degree of coherence of the teleported qubit, but only for an entangling Bell-state-environment interaction in the first step can they have different amounts of qubit-environment entanglement. In the extreme case, one of the teleported qubit states can be entangled with the environment while the other is separable.
As an important resource, the multiqubit entangled state is widely concerned in quantum computing and quantum communication. Based on the multiqubit partially entangled state, we propose a quantum multicast scheme. In the proposed scheme, arbitrary N-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state could be sent to N receivers via a 2N-qubit partially entangled state. Specially, the proposed scheme is accomplished with controlled-NOT gates, which ensure the scheme is more efficient and easier to be implemented. In addition, we construct the quantum circuit simulations and the partially entangled channel on IBMQ to prove the feasibility of the scheme. Finally, the performance of the proposed scheme is analyzed to show that the scheme owns the higher efficiency.
In this work we develop a highly efficient representation of functions and differential operators based on Fourier analysis. Using this representation, we create a variational hybrid quantum algorithm to solve static, Schrödinger-type, Hamiltonian partial differential equations (PDEs), using space-efficient variational circuits, including the symmetries of the problem, and global and gradient-based optimizers. We use this algorithm to benchmark the performance of the representation techniques by means of the computation of the ground state in three PDEs, i.e., the one-dimensional quantum harmonic oscillator and the transmon and flux qubits, studying how they would perform in ideal and near-term quantum computers. With the Fourier methods developed here, we obtain low infidelities of order 10 -4 -10 -5 using only three to four qubits, demonstrating the high compression of information in a quantum computer. Practical fidelities are limited by the noise and the errors of the evaluation of the cost function in real computers, but they can also be improved through error mitigation techniques.
We investigate the dynamics of a general two-level based anti-parity-time (anti-PT )-symmetric qubit and study its decoherence as well as entanglement entropy properties. We compare our findings with that of the corresponding parity-time (PT )-symmetric and Hermitian qubits. To begin, we consider the time-dependent Dyson map to find the exact analytical dynamics for a general non-Hermitian qubit system weakly coupled with a thermal bath for pure dephasing, before specializing it to the case of a general anti-PT -symmetric qubit. Basing the comparison under the same coupling strength or increasing the non-Hermiticity, we observe that the decoherence function and entanglement entropy of the anti-PT -symmetric qubit decays and grows more slowly, respectively, compared to the PT -symmetric and Hermitian qubits. Similarly, the corresponding variance and area of Fisher information are much higher compared to the PT -symmetric and Hermitian qubits. These results demonstrate that anti-PT -symmetric qubits may be better suited for quantum computing and quantum information processing applications than conventional Hermitian or even PT -symmetric qubits.
We investigate the dynamics of a general two-level based anti-parity-time (anti-PT )-symmetric qubit and study its decoherence as well as entanglement entropy properties. We compare our findings with that of the corresponding parity-time (PT )-symmetric and Hermitian qubits. To begin, we consider the time-dependent Dyson map to find the exact analytical dynamics for a general non-Hermitian qubit system weakly coupled with a thermal bath for pure dephasing, before specializing it to the case of a general anti-PT -symmetric qubit. Basing the comparison under the same coupling strength or increasing the non-Hermiticity, we observe that the decoherence function and entanglement entropy of the anti-PT -symmetric qubit decays and grows more slowly, respectively, compared to the PT -symmetric and Hermitian qubits. Similarly, the corresponding variance and area of Fisher information are much higher compared to the PT -symmetric and Hermitian qubits. These results demonstrate that anti-PT -symmetric qubits may be better suited for quantum computing and quantum information processing applications than conventional Hermitian or even PT -symmetric qubits.
The multipartite quantum networks feature multiple independent sources, in contrast to the conventional multipartite Bell experiment involving a single source. Despite the initial independence of resources, the multiple observers in the network can suitably choose measurements on their local subsystems and generate a form of quantum nonlocality across the network. So far, network nonlocality has been explored when each source produces a two-qubit entangled state. In this work we demonstrate the network nonlocality when each party performs a black-box measurement, and the dimension of the system remains unspecified. In an interesting work, by considering each source produces two-qubit entangled states in the conventional bilocal scenario, Gisin et al. [Phys. Rev. A 96, 020304 (2017)] demonstrated a correspondence between the violations of bipartite Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Halt inequality and the bilocality inequality. We introduce a variant of the sum-of-squares approach to reproduce their results without assuming the dimension of the system. We then generalize the argument for network nonlocality in star-network topology. Furthermore, we propose a set of n-locality inequalities in a star-network configuration where each of the n parties performs an arbitrary number of dichotomic measurements and demonstrates the above correspondence between the quantum violations of the n-locality inequalities and the chained Bell inequalities. A similar correspondence is demonstrated based on a recently formulated family of n-locality inequalities whose optimal quantum violation cannot be obtained when each source emits a two-qubit entangled state and requires multiple copies of two-qubit entangled states. Throughout this paper, each party in the network performs black-box measurements, and the dimension of the system remains unspecified.
We study the interaction of a two-level atom with a single-mode nonlinear electromagnetic resonator, considering coupling strengths ranging from zero to the so-called deep strong coupling regime. When the qubit-resonator coupling is very strong, the standard Kerr model for the resonator becomes questionable. Moreover, recently, it has been shown that extra care is needed when constructing gauge-independent theories in the presence of approximations as the truncation of the Hilbert space of the matter system. Such a truncation can ruin gauge invariance leading to nonphysical results, especially when the light-matter interactions strength is very high.
PT -symmetric quantum theory has attracted extensive attention in recent years because of its novel properties, applications, and even controversial discussions. Many difficulties in applications stem from the unknown of how to simulate the dynamics of PT -symmetric systems in conventional quantum systems. In this work, by clarifying some common confusion in the simulation of PT -symmetric systems, we are able to naturally extend the application scope of the original embedding simulation scheme from pure states to arbitrary mixed states. Based on the above groundwork, we further propose a local-operations-and-classical-communication (LOCC) protocol scheme to simulate the dynamics of a PT -symmetric system. Our LOCC protocol scheme, which needs one ancillary qubit only, can be applied to simulate any arbitrary finite-dimensional PT -symmetric system in the PT -unbroken phase and has several advantages over the original embedding scheme. The success probability is increased to λ min (λ min > 1) times in general, even approaching 100% in some special cases, and has a concise bound that makes it easier to estimate the necessary experimental resources in advance. Furthermore, our LOCC protocol has less dependence on but more flexibility in the selection of the metric operator and more adaptability in practical applications, and it is more consistent with the physical intuition. Finally, the physical or philosophical meaning behind the embedding scheme and the LOCC protocol is discussed.
A major challenge for the realization of useful universal quantum computers is achieving high fidelity twoqubit entangling gate operations. However, calibration errors can affect the quantum gate operations and limit their fidelity. To reduce such errors it is desirable to have an analytical understanding and quantitative predictions of the effects that miscalibrations of gate parameters have on the gate performance. In this work, we study a systematic perturbative expansion in miscalibrated parameters of the Mølmer-Sørensen entangling gate, which is widely used in trapped-ion quantum processors. Our analytical treatment particularly focuses on systematic center-line detuning miscalibrations. Via a unitary Magnus expansion, we compute the gate evolution operator, which allows us to obtain relevant key properties such as relative phases, electronic populations, quantum state purity and fidelities. These quantities, subsequently, are used to assess the performance of the gate using the fidelity of entangled states as performance metric. We verify the predictions from our model by benchmarking them against measurements in a trapped-ion quantum processor. The method and the results presented here can help design and calibrate high-fidelity gate operations of large-scale quantum computers.
We present an arithmetic circuit performing constant modular addition having O(n) depth of Toffoli gates and using a total of n + 3 qubits. This is an improvement by a factor of two compared to the width of the stateof-the-art Toffoli-based constant modular adder. The advantage of our adder, compared to the ones operating in the Fourier basis, is that it does not require small-angle rotations and their Clifford + T decomposition. Our circuit uses a recursive adder combined with the modular addition scheme proposed by Vedral et al. The circuit is implemented and verified exhaustively with QUANTIFY, an open-sourced framework. We also report on the Clifford + T cost of the circuit.
Neutral alkaline earth(like) atoms have recently been employed in atomic arrays with individual readout, control, and high-fidelity Rydberg-mediated entanglement. This emerging platform offers a wide range of new quantum science applications that leverage the unique properties of such atoms: ultranarrow optical "clock" transitions and isolated nuclear spins. Specifically, these properties offer an optical qubit (o) as well as ground (g) and metastable (m) nuclear spin qubits, all within a single atom. We consider experimentally realistic control of this omg architecture and its coupling to Rydberg states for entanglement generation, focusing specifically on ytterbium-171 ( 171 Yb) with nuclear spin I = 1 2 . We analyze the S-series Rydberg states of 171 Yb, described by the three spin-1 2 constituents (two electrons and the nucleus). We confirm that the F = 3 2 manifold, a unique spin configuration, is well suited for entangling nuclear spin qubits. Further, we analyze the F = 1 2 series, described by two overlapping spin configurations, using a multichannel quantum defect theory. We study the multilevel dynamics of the nuclear spin states when driving the clock or Rydberg transition with Rabi frequency c = 2π × 200 kHz or R = 2π × 6 MHz, respectively, finding that a modest magnetic field (≈200 G) and feasible laser polarization intensity purity ( 0.99) are sufficient for gate fidelities exceeding 0.99. We also study singlebeam Raman rotations of the nuclear spin qubits and identify a "magic" linear polarization angle with respect to the magnetic field at which purely σ x rotations are possible.
We consider tensor-network stabilizer codes and show that their tensor-network decoder has the property that independent logical qubits can be decoded in parallel. As long as the error rate is below threshold, we show that this parallel decoder is essentially optimal. Holographic codes are interesting examples of tensor-network codes, so we first test out this parallel decoding strategy on the max-rate holographic Steane (heptagon) code. For holographic codes with a constant number of logical qubits, the tensor-network decoder was shown to be efficient with complexity polynomial in n, the number of physical qubits. Here we show that, by using the parallel decoding scheme, the complexity is also linear in k, the number of logical qubits. We then calculate the bulk threshold (the threshold for logical qubits a fixed distance from the code center) under depolarizing noise for the max-rate holographic Steane code to be 9.4%. We also introduce some further holographic error-correcting codes and calculate their thresholds under depolarizing noise. One example is based on an 11-qubit code due to Gottesman, which has asymptotic rate 0.114 and threshold 13.8%. Another code we consider is an asymptotically zero-rate holographic code, which performs extremely well under dephasing noise in the X , Y , or Z basis with a threshold of 50%.
We consider tensor-network stabilizer codes and show that their tensor-network decoder has the property that independent logical qubits can be decoded in parallel. As long as the error rate is below threshold, we show that this parallel decoder is essentially optimal. Holographic codes are interesting examples of tensor-network codes, so we first test out this parallel decoding strategy on the max-rate holographic Steane (heptagon) code. For holographic codes with a constant number of logical qubits, the tensor-network decoder was shown to be efficient with complexity polynomial in n, the number of physical qubits. Here we show that, by using the parallel decoding scheme, the complexity is also linear in k, the number of logical qubits. We then calculate the bulk threshold (the threshold for logical qubits a fixed distance from the code center) under depolarizing noise for the max-rate holographic Steane code to be 9.4%. We also introduce some further holographic error-correcting codes and calculate their thresholds under depolarizing noise. One example is based on an 11-qubit code due to Gottesman, which has asymptotic rate 0.114 and threshold 13.8%. Another code we consider is an asymptotically zero-rate holographic code, which performs extremely well under dephasing noise in the X , Y , or Z basis with a threshold of 50%.
Non-Hermitian systems with parity-time reversal (PT ) or anti-PT symmetry have attracted a wide range of interest owing to their unique characteristics and counterintuitive phenomena. One of the most extraordinary features is the presence of an exceptional point, across which a phase transition with spontaneously broken PT symmetry takes place. We implement a Floquet Hamiltonian of a single qubit with anti-PT symmetry by periodically driving a dissipative quantum system of a single trapped ion. With stroboscopic emission and quantum state tomography, we obtain the time evolution of density matrix for an arbitrary initial state, and directly demonstrate information retrieval, eigenstate coalescence, and topological energy spectra as unique features of non-Hermitian systems.
We introduce a three-parameter family of Bell functionals that extends those studied previously [Kaniewski,  Phys. Rev. Res. 2, 033420 (2020)] by including a marginal contribution. An analysis of their largest value achievable by quantum realizations naturally splits the family into two branches, and for the first of them we show that this value is given by a simple function of the parameters defining the functionals. In this case we completely characterize the realizations attaining the optimal value and show that these functionals can be used to self-test any partially entangled state of two qubits. The optimal measurements, however, are not unique and form a one-parameter family of qubit measurements. The second branch, which includes the well-known I 3322 functional, is studied numerically. We identify the region in the parameter space where the optimal value can be attained with two-dimensional quantum systems and characterize the state and measurements attaining this value. Finally, we show that the set of realizations introduced by Pál and Vértesi [Phys. Rev. A 82, 022116 (2010)] to obtain the maximal violation of the I 3322 inequality succeeds in approaching the optimal value for a large subset of the functionals in this branch. In these cases we analyze and discuss the main features of the optimal realizations.
We introduce a three-parameter family of Bell functionals that extends those studied previously [Kaniewski,  Phys. Rev. Res. 2, 033420 (2020)] by including a marginal contribution. An analysis of their largest value achievable by quantum realizations naturally splits the family into two branches, and for the first of them we show that this value is given by a simple function of the parameters defining the functionals. In this case we completely characterize the realizations attaining the optimal value and show that these functionals can be used to self-test any partially entangled state of two qubits. The optimal measurements, however, are not unique and form a one-parameter family of qubit measurements. The second branch, which includes the well-known I 3322 functional, is studied numerically. We identify the region in the parameter space where the optimal value can be attained with two-dimensional quantum systems and characterize the state and measurements attaining this value. Finally, we show that the set of realizations introduced by Pál and Vértesi [Phys. Rev. A 82, 022116 (2010)] to obtain the maximal violation of the I 3322 inequality succeeds in approaching the optimal value for a large subset of the functionals in this branch. In these cases we analyze and discuss the main features of the optimal realizations.
We introduce a three-parameter family of Bell functionals that extends those studied previously [Kaniewski,  Phys. Rev. Res. 2, 033420 (2020)] by including a marginal contribution. An analysis of their largest value achievable by quantum realizations naturally splits the family into two branches, and for the first of them we show that this value is given by a simple function of the parameters defining the functionals. In this case we completely characterize the realizations attaining the optimal value and show that these functionals can be used to self-test any partially entangled state of two qubits. The optimal measurements, however, are not unique and form a one-parameter family of qubit measurements. The second branch, which includes the well-known I 3322 functional, is studied numerically. We identify the region in the parameter space where the optimal value can be attained with two-dimensional quantum systems and characterize the state and measurements attaining this value. Finally, we show that the set of realizations introduced by Pál and Vértesi [Phys. Rev. A 82, 022116 (2010)] to obtain the maximal violation of the I 3322 inequality succeeds in approaching the optimal value for a large subset of the functionals in this branch. In these cases we analyze and discuss the main features of the optimal realizations.
Photonic quantum computers, programed within the framework of the measurement-based quantum computing (MBQC), and gate-based platforms are racing toward useful quantum advantage, and some algorithms have emerged as main candidates to reach this goal in the near term. The majority of these algorithms are only expressed in the gate-based model of computation, which is incompatible with photonic platforms. Methods to translate gate-based algorithms into the MBQC framework exist, but they are not always optimal in terms of resource cost. In our work, we propose an MBQC algorithm to run the quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA). Furthermore, we apply the MBQC-QAOA algorithm to the Max K-Cut problem, for all values of K, expressing the cost Hamiltonian and its constraints in a form easily implementable in the MBQC model. We conclude by analyzing the resource cost of our algorithm, compared to the case of translating a gate-based QAOA algorithm into MBQC rules, and show up to a 30-fold improvement. With our work, we contribute to closing the gap between gate-based and MBQC near-term algorithms, a gap not reflecting the current status of the hardware development.
Bosonic quantum codes redundantly encode quantum information in the states of a quantum harmonic oscillator, making it possible to detect and correct errors. Schrödinger cat codes-based on the superposition of two coherent states with opposite displacements-can correct phase-flip errors induced by dephasing, but they are vulnerable to bit-flip errors induced by particle loss. Here, we develop a bosonic quantum code relying on squeezed cat states, i.e., cat states made of a linear superposition of displaced-squeezed states. Squeezed cat states allow to partially correct errors caused by particle loss, while at the same time improving the protection against dephasing. We present a comprehensive analysis of the squeezed cat code, including protocols for code generation and elementary quantum gates. We characterize the effect of both particle loss and dephasing and develop an optimal recovery protocol that is suitable to be implemented on currently available quantum hardware. We show that with moderate squeezing, and using typical parameters of state-of-the-art quantum hardware platforms, the squeezed cat code has a resilience to particle loss errors that significantly outperforms that of the conventional cat code.
Nonorthogonal quantum state discrimination (QSD) plays an important role in quantum information and quantum communication. In addition, compared to Hermitian quantum systems, parity-time-(PT -)symmetric non-Hermitian quantum systems exhibit novel phenomena and have attracted considerable attention. Here, we experimentally demonstrate QSD in a PT -symmetric system (i.e., PT -symmetric QSD), by having quantum states evolve under a PT -symmetric Hamiltonian in a lossy linear optical setup. We observe that two initially nonorthogonal states can rapidly evolve into orthogonal states and the required evolution time can even be vanishing provided the matrix elements of the Hamiltonian become sufficiently large. We also observe that the cost of such a discrimination is a dissipation of quantum states into the environment. Furthermore, by comparing PT -symmetric QSD with optimal strategies in Hermitian systems, we find that at the critical value, PT -symmetric QSD is equivalent to the optimal unambiguous state discrimination in Hermitian systems. We also extend the PT -symmetric QSD to the case of discriminating three nonorthogonal states. The QSD in a PT -symmetric system opens a new door for quantum state discrimination, which has important applications in quantum computing, quantum cryptography, and quantum communication.
Two transversely coupled and resonant qubits form symmetric and antisymmetric states as their eigenstates. In this paper, we show that parametric modulation of an individual qubit enables direct Rabi swapping between the two states. Its application to set up a -type system with a pair of strongly coupled superconducting transmon qubits is discussed. The excited state is made of the symmetric state, and the metastable state is the antisymmetric state. The coherence of the metastable state is only limited by the pure dephasing mechanism. Based on this scheme, -type electromagnetically induced transparency, Autler-Townes splitting, and stimulated Raman adiabatic passage are numerically demonstrated. We highlight the large frequency tunability in such superconducting -type systems.
Two transversely coupled and resonant qubits form symmetric and antisymmetric states as their eigenstates. In this paper, we show that parametric modulation of an individual qubit enables direct Rabi swapping between the two states. Its application to set up a -type system with a pair of strongly coupled superconducting transmon qubits is discussed. The excited state is made of the symmetric state, and the metastable state is the antisymmetric state. The coherence of the metastable state is only limited by the pure dephasing mechanism. Based on this scheme, -type electromagnetically induced transparency, Autler-Townes splitting, and stimulated Raman adiabatic passage are numerically demonstrated. We highlight the large frequency tunability in such superconducting -type systems.
Hybrid systems of electron and nuclear spins are a fundamental building block for scalable quantum information processing. Here we propose a fast and high-fidelity control scheme based on geometric Landau-Zener-Stückelberg-Majorana interferometry, using a nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond as an example. When this hybrid spin multilevel system is driven through avoided crossings, geometric phases accumulate in each spin subspace and manifest as interference patterns in the dynamics of the whole system. We systematically study the effects of various decoherence mechanisms and fluctuations of control parameters on this geometric phase process. We also consider the application of quantum memory, where electron spins are used as a processing qubit and nuclear spins are used as a storage qubit. This scheme can achieve a transfer fidelity of 0.985 and a total storage fidelity of 0.96. These results pave the way for geometric coherent manipulations on a variety of hybrid quantum platforms.
Using the quantum-brachistochrone formalism, we address the problem of finding the fastest possible (timeoptimal) deterministic conversion between W and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states in a system of three identical and equidistant neutral atoms that are acted upon by four external laser pulses. Assuming that all four pulses are close to being resonant with the same internal (atomic) transition-the one between the atomic ground state and a high-lying Rydberg state-each atom can be treated as an effective two-level system (gr-type qubit). Starting from an effective system Hamiltonian, which is valid in the Rydberg-blockade regime and defined on a four-state manifold, we derive the quantum-brachistochrone equations pertaining to the fastest possible W -to-GHZ state conversion. By numerically solving these equations, we determine the time-dependent Rabi frequencies of external laser pulses that correspond to the time-optimal state conversion. In particular, we show that the shortest possible W -to-GHZ state-conversion time is given by T QB = 6.8 h/E , where E is the total laser-pulse energy used, this last time being significantly shorter than the state-conversion times previously found using a dynamical-symmetry-based approach [T DS = (1.33 -1.66) T QB ].
Using the quantum-brachistochrone formalism, we address the problem of finding the fastest possible (timeoptimal) deterministic conversion between W and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states in a system of three identical and equidistant neutral atoms that are acted upon by four external laser pulses. Assuming that all four pulses are close to being resonant with the same internal (atomic) transition-the one between the atomic ground state and a high-lying Rydberg state-each atom can be treated as an effective two-level system (gr-type qubit). Starting from an effective system Hamiltonian, which is valid in the Rydberg-blockade regime and defined on a four-state manifold, we derive the quantum-brachistochrone equations pertaining to the fastest possible W -to-GHZ state conversion. By numerically solving these equations, we determine the time-dependent Rabi frequencies of external laser pulses that correspond to the time-optimal state conversion. In particular, we show that the shortest possible W -to-GHZ state-conversion time is given by T QB = 6.8 h/E , where E is the total laser-pulse energy used, this last time being significantly shorter than the state-conversion times previously found using a dynamical-symmetry-based approach [T DS = (1.33 -1.66) T QB ].
We consider the application of the entanglement criteria derived by Hillery and Zubairy [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96,  050503 (2006)] to the detection of entanglement in N-qubit systems. For N = 2 qubits we show that, with the natural choice of operators, one of the criteria never detects entanglement; we also derive conditions for the other criterion to work and for it to have a simple relation to the negativity when it does. For general angular momenta we show the Hillery-Zubairy relations can always detect the entanglement of the (pure) states of well-defined total (J, J z ) if the "test" operators are chosen appropriately. We then show how this may be used, in particular, to develop useful criteria to detect entanglement in a system of N two-level atoms interacting with a field initially in a number state (the Tavis-Cummings model).
In quantum photonics, threshold detectors, distinguishing between vacuum and one or more photons, such as superconducting nanowires and avalanche photodiodes, are routinely used to measure Fock and Gaussian states of light. Despite being the standard measurement scheme, there is no general closed form expression for measurement probabilities with threshold detectors, unless accepting coarse approximations or combinatorially scaling summations. Here, we present new matrix functions to fill this gap. We develop the Bristolian and the loop Torontonian functions for threshold detection of Fock and displaced Gaussian states, respectively, and connect them to each other and to existing matrix functions. By providing a unified picture of bosonic statistics for most quantum states of light, we provide novel tools for the design and analysis of photonic quantum technologies.
Quantum states are important resources and their preparations are essential prerequisites to all quantum technologies. However, they are extremely fragile due to the inevitable dissipations. Here the all-optical generation of a deterministic squeezed Schrödinger-cat state based on dissipation is proposed. Our system is based on the Fredkin-type interaction between three optical modes, one of which is subject to coherent two-photon driving and the others are coherent driving. We show that an effective degenerate three-wave-mixing process can be engineered in our system, which can cause the simultaneous loss of two photons, resulting in the generation of a deterministic squeezed Schrödinger-cat state. More importantly, by controlling the driving fields in our system, the two-photon loss can be adjustable, which can accelerate the generation of squeezed Schrödinger-cat states. In addition, we exploit the squeezed Schrödinger-cat states to estimate the phase in the optical interferometer and show that the quantum Fisher information about the phase can reach the Heisenberg limit in the limit of a large photon number. Meanwhile, it can have an order of magnitude factor improvement over the Heisenberg limit in the low-photon-number regime, which is very valuable for fragile systems that cannot withstand large photon fluxes. This work proposes an all-optical scheme to deterministically prepare the squeezed Schrödinger-cat state with high speed and can also be generalized to other physical platforms.
In this research we analyze two models using the tensor network algorithm. The quantum correlations of a two-qubit system are first studied in different bosonic reservoirs. Both equilibrium and nonequilibrium scenarios are discussed. Non-Markovian effects can improve the survival time of the quantum correlations significantly and weaken the decoherence effect. Non-Markovian dynamics with existing memory can lead to entanglement rebirth in specific scenarios instead of the eventual entanglement decay or death seen in memoryless Markovian cases. The system reaches a steady state quickest in sub-Ohmic reservoirs and shows the most apparent non-Markovian behavior in super-Ohmic reservoirs. The Markovian approximation used in this paper is superior to that in the Bloch-Redfield master equation. The entanglement dynamics behaves similarly under different approaches when the system-bath coupling is weak and the memory effect is significant when the system-bath coupling is strong. We study not only the impact of the environment on quantum correlations, but also how to protect quantum correlations. Starting from a state in which the two ends are maximally entangled, a one-dimensional Aubry-André chain model is also studied. We identify distinct phases by monitoring the imbalance dynamics. When the chain is closed, the imbalance dynamics behaves differently in various phases and so does the entanglement evolution between the chain's ends. When the first site couples to a bath, we find that the imbalance dynamics can still be an effective indicator to differentiate various phases in an early evolution stage since the imbalance dynamics is only remarkably affected at relatively high temperatures. The distribution of the eigenenergy of the system can account for it. The entanglement of the chain ends decays rapidly in all phases due to one of the ends being coupled to the bath directly. However, the entanglement of the chain ends will persist for a perceptible amount of time in the localization phase if the bath is coupled to the middle site of the chain. Our research shows that one can utilize the disordered environment as a buffer to protect quantum correlations.
Interconversions of W and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states in various physical systems have recently been attracting considerable attention. We address this problem in the fairly general physical setting of qubit arrays with long-ranged (all-to-all) Ising-type qubit-qubit interaction, which are simultaneously acted upon by transverse Zeeman-type global control fields. Motivated in part by a recent Lie-algebraic result that implies state-to-state controllability of such a system for an arbitrary pair of states that are invariant with respect to qubit permutations, we present a detailed investigation of the state-interconversion problem in the three-qubit case. The envisioned interconversion protocol has the form of a pulse sequence that consists of two instantaneous (δ-shaped) control pulses, each of them corresponding to a global qubit rotation, and an Ising-interaction pulse of finite duration between them. Its construction relies heavily on the use of the (four-dimensional) permutationinvariant subspace (symmetric sector) of the three-qubit Hilbert space. In order to demonstrate the viability of the proposed state-interconversion scheme, we provide a detailed analysis of the robustness of the underlying pulse sequence to systematic errors, i.e., deviations from the optimal values of its five characteristic parameters.
We study the performance of an N-qubit W superposition state composed of a W state and its obverse in quantum metrology. Taking advantage of the general Ising-type Hamiltonian (including noninteracting and interacting operation), we analytically present the quantum Fisher information (QFI) of an N-qubit W superposition state under different situations and then investigate its phase sensitivity. The results show that the phase sensitivity under noninteracting operation displays a crossover from the W state to Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state, where it is same as W state in the few-qubit case (N 6) but asymptotically equal to the GHZ state for large-qubit cases (N 1). Interestingly, the 4-qubit W superposition state is found to have the same sensitivity as the 4-qubit GHZ state. And the optimal measurement protocols are provided for ideal metrology. Under the phase-amplitude damping channel, the phase sensitivity of the W superposition state (except for N = 3) is ultimately decreased to the standard quantum limit, while it turns worse in a depolarizing channel. Finally, the tunable phase sensitivity under interacting operation is studied, and the general Heisenberg limit is surpassed with the increasing interaction strength γ . Meanwhile, a plateau of QFI and phase sensitivity is found for all large-qubit W superposition states, which is similar to the study of the GHZ state and again verifies the common feature of GHZ-type states in quantum metrology.
We study the performance of an N-qubit W superposition state composed of a W state and its obverse in quantum metrology. Taking advantage of the general Ising-type Hamiltonian (including noninteracting and interacting operation), we analytically present the quantum Fisher information (QFI) of an N-qubit W superposition state under different situations and then investigate its phase sensitivity. The results show that the phase sensitivity under noninteracting operation displays a crossover from the W state to Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state, where it is same as W state in the few-qubit case (N 6) but asymptotically equal to the GHZ state for large-qubit cases (N 1). Interestingly, the 4-qubit W superposition state is found to have the same sensitivity as the 4-qubit GHZ state. And the optimal measurement protocols are provided for ideal metrology. Under the phase-amplitude damping channel, the phase sensitivity of the W superposition state (except for N = 3) is ultimately decreased to the standard quantum limit, while it turns worse in a depolarizing channel. Finally, the tunable phase sensitivity under interacting operation is studied, and the general Heisenberg limit is surpassed with the increasing interaction strength γ . Meanwhile, a plateau of QFI and phase sensitivity is found for all large-qubit W superposition states, which is similar to the study of the GHZ state and again verifies the common feature of GHZ-type states in quantum metrology.
The quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA) requires that circuit parameters are determined that allow one to sample from high-quality solutions to combinatorial optimization problems. Such parameters can be obtained using either costly outer-loop optimization procedures and repeated calls to a quantum computer or, alternatively, via analytical means. In this work, we consider a context in which one knows a probability density function describing how the objective function of a combinatorial optimization problem is distributed. We show that, if one knows this distribution, then the expected value of strings, sampled by measuring a Grover-driven, QAOA-prepared state, can be calculated independently of the size of the problem in question. By optimizing this quantity, optimal circuit parameters for average-case problems can be obtained on a classical computer. Such calculations can help deliver insights into the performance of and predictability of angles in QAOA in the limit of large problem sizes, in particular, for the number partitioning problem.
We investigate the quantum phase transition (QPT) in the XXZ central spin model, which can be described as a spin-1 2 particle coupled to N bath spins. In general, the QPT is supposed to occur only in the thermodynamical limit. In contrast, we present that the central spin model exhibits a normal-to-superradiant phase transition in the limit where the ratio of the transition frequency of the central spin to that of the bath spins and the number of bath spins tend to infinity. We give the low-energy effective Hamiltonian analytically in the normal phase and the superradiant phase, and we find that the longitudinal interaction can significantly influence the excitation number and the coherence of the ground state. These two quantities are remarkably enhanced for the negative longitudinal interaction while suppressed for the positive longitudinal interaction. In addition, the finite-size effect on the central spin model is also illustrated through the mean-field analysis. We further exploit the quantum Fisher information to characterize the QPT and propose a measurement scheme that can be applied in practice. This work builds a connection between the qubit-spin systems and the qubit-field systems, which provides a possibility for the realization of criticality-enhanced quantum sensing in central spin systems.
Very recently, dissipative coupling was discovered, which develops and broadens methods for controlling and utilizing light-matter interactions. Here, we propose a scheme to generate the tripartite W state in a dissipatively coupled system, where one qubit and two resonators simultaneously interact with a common reservoir. With appropriate parameters, we find the W state is a dark state of the system. By driving the qubit, the dissipatively coupled system will evolve from the ground state to the tripartite W state. Because the initial state is the ground state of the system and no measurement is required, our scheme is easy to implement in experiments. Moreover, the W state decouples from the common reservoir and thus has a very long lifetime. This scheme is applicable to a wide class of dissipatively coupled systems and we specifically illustrate how to prepare the W state in a hybrid qubit-photon-magnon system by using this scheme.
A single bichromatic field near resonant to a qubit transition is typically used for σx or σy Mølmer-Sørensentype interactions in trapped-ion systems. Using this field configuration, it is also possible to synthesize a σz spin-dependent force by merely adjusting the beat-note frequency. Here, we expand on previous work and present a comprehensive theoretical and experimental investigation of this scheme with a laser near resonant to a quadrupole transition in 88 Sr + . Further, we characterize its robustness to optical phase and qubit frequency offsets, and demonstrate its versatility by entangling optical, metastable, and ground-state qubits.
A single bichromatic field near resonant to a qubit transition is typically used for σx or σy Mølmer-Sørensentype interactions in trapped-ion systems. Using this field configuration, it is also possible to synthesize a σz spin-dependent force by merely adjusting the beat-note frequency. Here, we expand on previous work and present a comprehensive theoretical and experimental investigation of this scheme with a laser near resonant to a quadrupole transition in 88 Sr + . Further, we characterize its robustness to optical phase and qubit frequency offsets, and demonstrate its versatility by entangling optical, metastable, and ground-state qubits.
This paper focuses on exact synthesis of two-qubit unitaries using Clifford and T gates. We propose an ancillafree synthesis algorithm (i) which uses T gates no more than ten times the minimum possible number of T gates, also known as the T count, and (ii) whose time complexity is linear with the T count and thus instance optimal. Our synthesis algorithm relies on a characterization of the T count of two-qubit unitaries based on Lie group homomorphism, which may be interest of its own. Precisely, we show that for any two-qubit unitary generated by Clifford and T gates, its T count is equivalent to the least denominator exponent of its SO(6) representation up to a factor of at most 10.
Quantum circuits performing arithmetic operations are critical in quantum computing because of the need for such operations in proven quantum algorithms. Although quantum computers are becoming increasingly resourceful, the number of qubits currently available is still limited. Furthermore, these qubits are heavily affected by internal and external noise. It has been proven that quantum circuits built using Clifford +T gates can be made fault tolerant. However, the use of the T gates comes at a very high cost. If the number of T gates used in a circuit is not optimized, the cost of the circuit will be increased excessively. As a consequence, it is essential to optimize the circuits so that they are as resource efficient as possible and also noise tolerant. This paper presents the design of a circuit to perform the multiplication of two integers. The circuit is built using only Clifford +T gates for compatibility with error detection and correction codes. It outperforms the circuits in the state of the art in terms of T count and T depth.
Quantum circuits performing arithmetic operations are critical in quantum computing because of the need for such operations in proven quantum algorithms. Although quantum computers are becoming increasingly resourceful, the number of qubits currently available is still limited. Furthermore, these qubits are heavily affected by internal and external noise. It has been proven that quantum circuits built using Clifford +T gates can be made fault tolerant. However, the use of the T gates comes at a very high cost. If the number of T gates used in a circuit is not optimized, the cost of the circuit will be increased excessively. As a consequence, it is essential to optimize the circuits so that they are as resource efficient as possible and also noise tolerant. This paper presents the design of a circuit to perform the multiplication of two integers. The circuit is built using only Clifford +T gates for compatibility with error detection and correction codes. It outperforms the circuits in the state of the art in terms of T count and T depth.
The use of multilevel information carriers, also known as qudits, is a promising path for exploring scalability of quantum computing devices. Here we present a proof-of-principle realization of a quantum processor register that uses optically addressed 171 Yb + ion qudits in a linear trap. The rich level structure of 171 Yb + ions allows using the Zeeman sublevels of the quadrupole clock transition at 435.5 nm for efficient and robust qudit encoding. We demonstrate the realization of the universal set of gates consisting of single-qudit rotations and a two-qudit Mølmer-Sørensen operation with a two-ququart system, which is formally equivalent to a universal gate-based four-qubit processor. Our results paves a way toward further studies of more efficient implementations of quantum algorithms with trapped-ion-based processors and, specifically, exploring properties of 171 Yb + ion qudits.
Recent advances in quantum technologies raise the urgent need of verifying the correct functionality of a quantum device. Certifying the correctness of a quantum device in a fully classical manner is an important research branch. In this paper, we present a measurement protocol that allows a classical verifier to interact with an efficient quantum prover to verify the computational basis or the XY -plane basis measurement on a quantum state. With the help of two adaptive hardcore bit properties of a noisy trapdoor claw-free family, the security of measurement protocol is proved, which is under quantum hardness of the learning with error. The security characterizes the distance between the output distribution of measurement protocol and the distribution obtained by measuring certain quantum states in the designated basis, with or without the presence of honest behavior of the prover. Moreover, exploiting the measurement protocol, we present two device-noise-independent verification protocols of graph states and a classical verification protocol of delegated quantum computing whose soundness is 0.5757.
Recent advances in quantum technologies raise the urgent need of verifying the correct functionality of a quantum device. Certifying the correctness of a quantum device in a fully classical manner is an important research branch. In this paper, we present a measurement protocol that allows a classical verifier to interact with an efficient quantum prover to verify the computational basis or the XY -plane basis measurement on a quantum state. With the help of two adaptive hardcore bit properties of a noisy trapdoor claw-free family, the security of measurement protocol is proved, which is under quantum hardness of the learning with error. The security characterizes the distance between the output distribution of measurement protocol and the distribution obtained by measuring certain quantum states in the designated basis, with or without the presence of honest behavior of the prover. Moreover, exploiting the measurement protocol, we present two device-noise-independent verification protocols of graph states and a classical verification protocol of delegated quantum computing whose soundness is 0.5757.
We propose a few-body quantum phenomenon, which manifests itself through stochastic state preparations and measurements followed by a conditioned postprocessing procedure. We show two experimental protocols to implement these phenomena with existing quantum computers, and examine their feasibility by using simulations. Our simulation results suggest that the experimental demonstration is feasible if we repeat the state preparations and measurements about thirty thousand times to three-qubit systems.
Benchmarking a high-precision quantum operation is a big challenge for many quantum systems in the presence of various noises as well as control errors. Here we propose an O(1) benchmarking of a dynamically corrected rotation by taking quantum advantage of a squeezed spin state in a spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). Our analytical and numerical results show that tiny rotation infidelity, defined by 1 -F with F the rotation fidelity, can be calibrated in the order of 1/N 2 by only several measurements of the rotation error for N atoms in an optimally squeezed spin state. Such an O(1) benchmarking is possible not only in a spin-1 BEC but also in other many-spin or many-qubit systems if a squeezed or entangled state is available.
We study the question of when investing additional quantum resources in preparing a ground state will improve the aggregate runtime associated with estimating its energy. We analyze Lin and Tong's near-optimal state preparation algorithm and show that it can reduce a proxy for the runtime, the T -gate count, of ground-stateenergy estimation near quadratically. Resource estimates are provided that specify the conditions under which the added cost of state preparation is worthwhile.
We study the question of when investing additional quantum resources in preparing a ground state will improve the aggregate runtime associated with estimating its energy. We analyze Lin and Tong's near-optimal state preparation algorithm and show that it can reduce a proxy for the runtime, the T -gate count, of ground-stateenergy estimation near quadratically. Resource estimates are provided that specify the conditions under which the added cost of state preparation is worthwhile.
A quantum computer encodes information in quantum states and runs quantum algorithms to surpass the classical counterparts by exploiting quantum superposition and quantum correlation. Grover's quantum search algorithm is a typical quantum algorithm that proves the superiority of quantum computing over classical computing. It has a quadratic reduction in the query complexity of a database search and is known to be optimal when no a priori information about the elements of the database is provided. In this work we consider a probabilistic Grover search algorithm allowing nonzero probability of failure for a database with a general a priori probability distribution of the elements and minimize the number of oracle calls by optimizing the initial state of the quantum system and the reflection axis of the diffusion operator. The initial state and the reflection axis are allowed to not coincide and thus the quantum search algorithm rotates the quantum system in a three-dimensional subspace spanned by the initial state, the reflection axis, and the search target state in general. The number of oracle calls is minimized by a variational method, and formal results are obtained with the assumption of low failure probability. The results show that for a nonuniform a priori distribution of the database elements, the number of oracle calls can be significantly reduced given a small decrease in the success probability of the quantum search algorithm, leading to a lower average query complexity to find the solution of the search problem. The results are applied to a simple but nontrivial database model with two-value a priori probabilities to show the power of the optimized quantum search algorithm. The paper concludes with a discussion about the generalization to higher-order results that allows for a larger failure probability for the quantum search algorithm.
An entangled state is said to be m-uniform if the reduced density matrix of any m qubits is maximally mixed. This is intimately linked to pure quantum error correction codes (QECCs), which allow us not only to correct errors but also to identify their precise nature and location. Here, we show how to create m-uniform states using local gates or interactions and elucidate several QECC applications. We first show that D-dimensional cluster states are m-uniform with m = 2D. This zero-correlation-length cluster state does not have finite-size corrections to its m = 2D uniformity, which is exact both for infinite lattices and for large enough, but finite, lattices. Yet at some finite value of the lattice extension in each of the D dimensions, which we bound, the uniformity is degraded due to finite support operators which wind around the system. We also outline how to achieve larger m values using quasi-D-dimensional cluster states. This opens the possibility to use cluster states to benchmark errors on quantum computers. We demonstrate this ability on a superconducting quantum computer, focusing on the one-dimensional cluster state, which, as we show, allows us to detect and identify one-qubit errors, distinguishing X , Y , and Z errors.
We conduct a systematic study of quantum circuits composed of multiple-control Z-rotation (MCZR) gates as primitives, since they are widely used components in quantum algorithms and also have attracted much experimental interest in recent years. We establish a circuit-polynomial correspondence to characterize the functionality of quantum circuits over the MCZR gate set with continuous parameters. An analytic method for exactly synthesizing such quantum circuit to implement any given diagonal unitary matrix with an optimal gate count is proposed, which also enables the circuit depth optimal for specific cases with pairs of complementary gates. Furthermore, we present a gate-exchange strategy together with a flexible iterative algorithm for effectively optimizing the depth of any MCZR circuit, which can also be applied to quantum circuits over any other commuting gate set. Besides the theoretical investigation, the practical performance of our circuit synthesis and optimization techniques is further evaluated numerically on two typical examples in quantum computing, including diagonal Hermitian operators and quantum approximate optimization algorithm circuits with tens of qubits, which can demonstrate a reduction in circuit depth by 33.40% and 15.55% on average over relevant prior works, respectively. Therefore, our methods and results provide a pathway for implementing quantum circuits and algorithms on recently developed devices.
A quantum computer encodes information in quantum states and runs quantum algorithms to surpass the classical counterparts by exploiting quantum superposition and quantum correlation. Grover's quantum search algorithm is a typical quantum algorithm that proves the superiority of quantum computing over classical computing. It has a quadratic reduction in the query complexity of a database search and is known to be optimal when no a priori information about the elements of the database is provided. In this work we consider a probabilistic Grover search algorithm allowing nonzero probability of failure for a database with a general a priori probability distribution of the elements and minimize the number of oracle calls by optimizing the initial state of the quantum system and the reflection axis of the diffusion operator. The initial state and the reflection axis are allowed to not coincide and thus the quantum search algorithm rotates the quantum system in a three-dimensional subspace spanned by the initial state, the reflection axis, and the search target state in general. The number of oracle calls is minimized by a variational method, and formal results are obtained with the assumption of low failure probability. The results show that for a nonuniform a priori distribution of the database elements, the number of oracle calls can be significantly reduced given a small decrease in the success probability of the quantum search algorithm, leading to a lower average query complexity to find the solution of the search problem. The results are applied to a simple but nontrivial database model with two-value a priori probabilities to show the power of the optimized quantum search algorithm. The paper concludes with a discussion about the generalization to higher-order results that allows for a larger failure probability for the quantum search algorithm.
We investigate models of nonlinear qubit evolution based on mappings to an n-qubit central-spin model (CSM) in the large-n limit, where mean-field theory is exact. Extending a theorem of Erdös and Schlein [J. Stat. Phys. 134, 859 (2009)], we establish that the CSM is rigorously dual to a nonlinear qubit when n → ∞. The duality supports a type of nonlinear quantum computation in systems, such as a condensate, where a large number of ancillas couple symmetrically to a central qubit. It also enables a gate-model implementation of nonlinear quantum simulation with a rigorous error bound. Two variants of the model, with and without coupling between ancillas, map to effective models with different nonlinearity and symmetry. Without coupling the CSM simulates initial-condition nonlinearity, where the Hamiltonian is a linear combination of tr(ρ 0 σ x )σ x , tr(ρ 0 σ y )σ y , and tr(ρ 0 σ z )σ z , where σ x , σ y , and σ z are Pauli matrices and ρ 0 is the initial density matrix. With symmetric ancillas coupling it simulates linear combinations of tr(ρσ x )σ x , tr(ρσ y )σ y , and tr(ρσ z )σ z , where ρ is the current state. This case can simulate qubit torsion, which has been shown by Abrams and Lloyd  [Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 3992 (1998)] to enable an exponential speedup for state discrimination in an idealized setting. The duality discussed here might also be interesting from a quantum foundation perspective. There has long been interest in whether quantum mechanics might possess some type of small unobserved nonlinearity.
High-fidelity two-qubit gates are crucial for the scalability of superconducting quantum processors. While quantum information processing is typically based on qubits, qutrits (or qudits) provide a larger state space for quantum information storage and processing. In this study, we analyze a high-fidelity two-qutrit gate using microwave pulses on fixed-frequency superconducting transmon qutrits and show that a high-fidelity imaginary swap-like (iSWAP-like) gate can be achieved. Perturbation theory is employed to derive an effective interaction Hamiltonian, allowing us to estimate the gate time for the two-qutrit system. Moreover, by employing a microwave-activation scheme, we can realize a high-fidelity iSWAP-like gate on different excited states of the two qutrits. Our numerical results indicate that the proposed scheme can be readily extended to multiqutrit scenarios. Additionally, we investigate the impact of microwave pulse ramp time and qutrit relaxation on gate fidelity. The results demonstrate that, with a longer ramp time and the currently accessible qutrit relaxation time, the gate error remains sufficiently small. This proposed gate scheme enables the implementation of qutrit-qutrit entangling gates, providing a promising approach to realizing superconducting quantum computation.
The nonlocal correlations of noisy quantum systems are important for both understanding nature and developing quantum technology. We consider the correlations of star and chain quantum networks in which noisy entanglement sources are measured by nonsignaling parties. We derive the necessary and sufficient conditions for when a broad family of star and chain n-locality inequalities achieve their maximal quantum violation assuming that each party's dichotomic observables are separable across qudit systems. When pairs of local dichotomic observables are considered on qubit systems, we derive maximal n-local violations that are larger and more robust to noise than the maximal n-locality violations reported previously. To obtain these larger values, we consider observables that we have not found in previous studies. Thus, we gain insights into self-testing entanglement sources and measurements in star and chain networks.
We propose a framework for computing the structure and dynamics for second-quantized many-nucleon Hamiltonians on quantum computers. We develop an oracle-based Hamiltonian input model that computes the many-nucleon states and nonzero Hamiltonian matrix elements of the many-nucleon system. With our Fock-state based input model, we show how to implement the sparse matrix simulation algorithms to calculate the dynamics of the second-quantized many-nucleon Hamiltonian. Based on the dynamics simulation methods, we also present the methodology for structure calculations of the many-nucleon system. In this work, we provide an explicit circuit design of our input model of the second-quantized Hamiltonian within a direct encoding scheme that maps the occupation of each available single-particle state in the many-nucleon state to the state of specific qubit in a quantum register. We analyze our method and provide the asymptotic cost in computing resources for structure and dynamics calculations of many-nucleon systems. For pedagogical purposes, we demonstrate our input model with two model problems in restricted model spaces.
We propose a framework for computing the structure and dynamics for second-quantized many-nucleon Hamiltonians on quantum computers. We develop an oracle-based Hamiltonian input model that computes the many-nucleon states and nonzero Hamiltonian matrix elements of the many-nucleon system. With our Fock-state based input model, we show how to implement the sparse matrix simulation algorithms to calculate the dynamics of the second-quantized many-nucleon Hamiltonian. Based on the dynamics simulation methods, we also present the methodology for structure calculations of the many-nucleon system. In this work, we provide an explicit circuit design of our input model of the second-quantized Hamiltonian within a direct encoding scheme that maps the occupation of each available single-particle state in the many-nucleon state to the state of specific qubit in a quantum register. We analyze our method and provide the asymptotic cost in computing resources for structure and dynamics calculations of many-nucleon systems. For pedagogical purposes, we demonstrate our input model with two model problems in restricted model spaces.
Fast quantum gates are of paramount importance for enabling efficient and error-resilient quantum computations. In the present work we analyze Landau-Zener-Stückelberg-Majorana (LZSM) strong driving protocols, tailored to implement fast gates with particular emphasis on small-gap qubits. We derive analytical equations to determine the specific set of driving parameters for the implementation of single-qubit and two-qubit gates employing single-period sinusoidal pulses. Our approach circumvents the need to scan experimentally a wide range of parameters and instead it allows to concentrate on fine-tuning the device near the analytically predicted values. We analyze the dependence of relaxation and decoherence on the amplitude and frequency of the pulses, obtaining the optimal regime of driving parameters to mitigate the effects of the environment. Our study focus on the single-qubit X π 2 , Yπ 2 and identity gates. Also, we propose the √ bSWAP as the simplest two-qubit gate attainable through a robust LZSM driving protocol.
The topological properties of a Heisenberg XY spin model on the square lattice in the form of a twodimensional Su-Schrieffer-Heeger model is investigated through the quench dynamics. Based on the topological edge states or the higher-order topological corner states of the square lattice, we propose a scheme to transmit quantum states with high quality, including single-excitation state and entangled state, on square lattices. For the transmission of the single-excitation state, when the square lattice is in the topological phase, the maximum fidelity at the corner sites of the lattice is much larger than that of bulk sites. In addition, it has been found that, due to the different symmetries of the spin ladder and the square lattice, the maximally entangled state can be generated between two qubits when a qubit at the edge of the spin ladder is excited initially, while it cannot be generated between two qubits at the corners of the square lattice. However, the maximally entangled state of two qubits at the edge of the spin ladder or the corners of the lattice can both be transmitted to the two qubits at the other side of the lattices with high quality.
It is shown that the total amount of correlation stored in N-qubit systems, as characterized by the discrete Rényi entropy, can be effectively employed to detect the presence of N-partite correlations within the framework of deterministic measurements. An associated optimization procedure can be analytically performed for a broad range of N-qubit states, encompassing both symmetric and nonsymmetric ones. This analytical approach enables the analysis of the asymptotic limit N 1. It is proved that the appropriately normalized quadratic discrete Rényi entropy always decreases in the process of deterministic measurements. This allows us to introduce a robustness parameter for assessing the stability of pure multipartite states under the protocol of measurementinduced optimal correlation transfer.
In this work we focus on two classes of games: XOR nonlocal games and XOR* sequential games with monopartite resources. XOR games have been widely studied in the literature of nonlocal games, and we introduce XOR* games as their natural counterpart within the class of games where a resource system is subjected to a sequence of controlled operations and a final measurement. Examples of XOR* games are 2 → 1 quantum random access codes (QRAC) and the CHSH* game introduced by Henaut et al. [Phys. Rev. A 98, 060302 ( 
In this work, we explore the PT -symmetric quantum Rabi model, which describes a PT -symmetric qubit coupled to a quantized light field. By employing the adiabatic approximation (AA), we are able to solve this model analytically in the parameter regime of interest and analyze various physical aspects. We investigate the static and dynamic properties of the model, using both the AA and numerical diagonalization. Our analysis reveals a multitude of exceptional points (EPs) that are closely connected with the exactly solvable points in the Hermitian counterpart of the model. Intriguingly, these EPs vanish and revive depending on the light-matter coupling strength. Furthermore, we discuss the time evolution of physical observables under the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. Rich and exotic behaviors are observed in both strong and ultrastrong coupling regimes. Our work extends the theory of PT symmetry into the full quantum light-matter interaction regime and provides insights that can be readily enlarged to a broad class of quantum optical systems.
Position error is treated as the leading obstacle that prevents Rydberg antiblockade gates from being experimentally realizable, because of the inevitable fluctuations in the relative motion between two atoms, invalidating the antiblockade condition. In this work we report progress towards a high-tolerance antiblockade-based Rydberg SWAP gate enabled by the use of a modified antiblockade condition combined with carefully optimized laser pulses. Depending on the optimization of diverse pulse shapes, our protocol shows that the amount of time spent in the double Rydberg state can be shortened by more than 70% with respect to the case using the perfect antiblockade condition, which significantly reduces this position error. Moreover, we benchmark the robustness of the gate by taking into account the technical noises, such as the Doppler dephasing due to atomic thermal motion, the fluctuations in laser intensity and laser phase, and the intensity inhomogeneity. Compared to other existing antiblockade-gate schemes, we are able to maintain a predicted gate fidelity above 0.91 after a very conservative estimation of various experimental imperfections, especially considered for a realistic interaction deviation of δV/V ≈ 5.92% at T ∼ 20 µK. Our work creates an opportunity for the experimental demonstration of Rydberg antiblockade gates in the near future.
Position error is treated as the leading obstacle that prevents Rydberg antiblockade gates from being experimentally realizable, because of the inevitable fluctuations in the relative motion between two atoms, invalidating the antiblockade condition. In this work we report progress towards a high-tolerance antiblockade-based Rydberg SWAP gate enabled by the use of a modified antiblockade condition combined with carefully optimized laser pulses. Depending on the optimization of diverse pulse shapes, our protocol shows that the amount of time spent in the double Rydberg state can be shortened by more than 70% with respect to the case using the perfect antiblockade condition, which significantly reduces this position error. Moreover, we benchmark the robustness of the gate by taking into account the technical noises, such as the Doppler dephasing due to atomic thermal motion, the fluctuations in laser intensity and laser phase, and the intensity inhomogeneity. Compared to other existing antiblockade-gate schemes, we are able to maintain a predicted gate fidelity above 0.91 after a very conservative estimation of various experimental imperfections, especially considered for a realistic interaction deviation of δV/V ≈ 5.92% at T ∼ 20 µK. Our work creates an opportunity for the experimental demonstration of Rydberg antiblockade gates in the near future.
Quantum light sources play a vital role in various aspects of quantum information science, but on-demand highly efficient generation of arbitrary multiphoton states which can be easily integrated is still challenging. Here, we propose a chip-integrable scheme to deterministically generate a group of n photons with very high fidelity based on the long-range collective interaction between the emitters mediated by the waveguide modes. The n photons are shown to be emitted in a bundle while two successive n-photon bundles tend to be antibunched and can behave as an n-photon gun. Our results here can find applications in areas such as chip-integrated quantum information processing and quantum metrology.
Quantum light sources play a vital role in various aspects of quantum information science, but on-demand highly efficient generation of arbitrary multiphoton states which can be easily integrated is still challenging. Here, we propose a chip-integrable scheme to deterministically generate a group of n photons with very high fidelity based on the long-range collective interaction between the emitters mediated by the waveguide modes. The n photons are shown to be emitted in a bundle while two successive n-photon bundles tend to be antibunched and can behave as an n-photon gun. Our results here can find applications in areas such as chip-integrated quantum information processing and quantum metrology.
The silicon vacancy (V Si ) in 3C-SiC is studied as a center of interest in the field of quantum technologies, modeled as an electron spin (behaving as a two-state qubit in appropriate conditions) interacting through hyperfine coupling with the SiC nuclear spin bath containing 29 Si and 13 C nuclei in their natural isotopic concentration. We calculate the formation energies of the neutral and charged V Si with ab initio methods based on the density functional theory, identifying the stability of the neutral charge state for energies close to the valence band of 3C-SiC. In addition, magnetic properties are calculated for the V -1
The silicon vacancy (V Si ) in 3C-SiC is studied as a center of interest in the field of quantum technologies, modeled as an electron spin (behaving as a two-state qubit in appropriate conditions) interacting through hyperfine coupling with the SiC nuclear spin bath containing 29 Si and 13 C nuclei in their natural isotopic concentration. We calculate the formation energies of the neutral and charged V Si with ab initio methods based on the density functional theory, identifying the stability of the neutral charge state for energies close to the valence band of 3C-SiC. In addition, magnetic properties are calculated for the V -1
We develop the analytical theory that describes simultaneous transmission of several photons through a waveguide coupled to a -type atom. We show that after transmission of a short few-photon pulse, the final state of the atom and all the photons is a genuine multipartite entangled state belonging to the W class. The parameters of the input pulse are optimized to maximize the efficiency of three-and four-partite W -state production. The probability to obtain the canonical W state of many photons is shown to be larger than 1/e.
Analyzing the nonclassicality of correlations generated in n-local quantum networks is an important branch of study in quantum information theory. Speaking of nonclassicality, violation of an n-local inequality ensures non n-locality of corresponding network correlations. Being correlation-based, violation of any such inequality is experimentally feasible. The present work explores whether applying suitable local unitary operations can aid violation of any n-local inequality. Observations have ensured the utility of local unitary operations in enhancing the detection efficiency of bilocal inequality and n-local inequality (for n = 3, 4) in the star configuration. In an n-local quantum network, such operations correspond to local basis change applied by at least one party over its joint state of qubits received from the sources. In an n-local network, with all the parties performing any possible local unitary operation, correlations not violating an n-local inequality (compatible with the network considered), are first characterized. Such characterization is then exploited to provide examples of local unitary operations aiding violation of existing n-local inequalities for n = 2, 3, and 4, specifically. Interestingly, there exist two qubit unitary operations, for which nontrilocal correlations can be simulated even when one of the sources distribute pure product state in star network. Quantum gates associated with the useful unitary operations are provided.
The Leggett-Garg inequality (LGI) delineates a boundary between quantum and classical systems. While the temporal quantum correlations represented by LGIs have been extensively investigated in the Hermitian domain, the exploration of LGIs under non-Hermitian conditions remains scarce. Theoretical conjectures posit that nonunitary dynamics could transcend the boundary of LGIs set by Hermitian quantum mechanics, yet its empirical validation is lacking. Here, we demonstrate the enhanced violation of LGIs in a non-Hermitian system of a parity-time (PT )-symmetric trapped-ion qubit. The upper bounds of both the third-order parameter K 3 and fourth-order parameter K 4 increase with dissipation and can reach the maximum value when the system approaches the exceptional point, where K 3 = C 21 + C 32 -C 31 is comprising three two-time correlations and K 4 = C 21 + C 32 + C 43 -C 41 is comprising four correlations. We also find that the lower bounds of K 3 and K 4 exhibit distinctive behaviors, where the lower bound of K 3 remains constant, but that of K 4 depends on the target states and measurement operators. These findings reveal a pronounced correlation between the dissipative nature of a quantum system and its temporal correlations.
Time-periodic systems allow engineering new effective Hamiltonians from limited physical interactions. For example, the inverted position of the Kapitza pendulum emerges as a stable equilibrium with rapid drive of its pivot point. In this work we propose the Kapitzonium: a Floquet qubit that is the superconducting circuit analog of a mechanical Kapitza pendulum. Under periodic driving, the bit-and phase-flip rates of the emerging qubit states are exponentially suppressed with respect to the ratio of the effective Josephson energy to charging energy. However, we find that dissipation causes leakage out of the Floquet qubit subspace. We engineer a passive cooling scheme to stabilize the qubit subspace, which is crucial for high-fidelity quantum control under dissipation. Furthermore, we introduce a hardware-efficient fluorescence-based method for qubit measurement and discuss the experimental implementation of the Floquet qubit. Our work provides the fundamental steps to develop more complex Floquet quantum systems from the ground up to realize large-scale protected engineered dynamics.
We formulate the O(3) nonlinear sigma model in 1 + 1 dimensions as a limit of a three-component scalar field theory restricted to the unit sphere in the large squeezing limit. This allows us to describe the model in terms of the continuous-variable (CV) approach to quantum computing. We construct the ground state and excited states using the coupled-cluster Ansatz and find excellent agreement with the exact diagonalization results for a small number of lattice sites. We then present the simulation protocol for the time evolution of the model using CV gates and obtain numerical results using a photonic quantum simulator. We expect that the methods developed in this paper will be useful for exploring interesting dynamics for a wide class of sigma models and gauge theories, as well as for simulating scattering events on quantum hardware in the coming decades.
We introduce a class of entangled subspaces: completely entangled subspaces of entanglement depth k (k-CESs). These are subspaces of multipartite Hilbert spaces containing only pure states with an entanglement depth of at least k. We present an efficient construction of k-CESs of any achievable dimensionality in any multipartite scenario. Further, we discuss the relation between these subspaces and unextendible product bases (UPBs). In particular, we establish that there is a nontrivial bound on the cardinality of a UPB whose orthocomplement is a k-CES. Further, we discuss the existence of such UPBs for qubit systems.
We introduce a class of entangled subspaces: completely entangled subspaces of entanglement depth k (k-CESs). These are subspaces of multipartite Hilbert spaces containing only pure states with an entanglement depth of at least k. We present an efficient construction of k-CESs of any achievable dimensionality in any multipartite scenario. Further, we discuss the relation between these subspaces and unextendible product bases (UPBs). In particular, we establish that there is a nontrivial bound on the cardinality of a UPB whose orthocomplement is a k-CES. Further, we discuss the existence of such UPBs for qubit systems.
We wish to correct an error in our article in the subprotocol verifying magic states. Specifically, the circuit used to implement the verification cannot be implemented transversally for the chosen family of codes. In this erratum, we explain the error in detail and propose a solution based on already existing techniques, i.e., distributed magic state distillation. This approach increases the operational qubit workspace per node from n 2 + 4n to n 2 + (s)n, where s is the security parameter. The increase is linear in n, which means that the main result of our paper remains intact: the number of qubits per node necessary to implement the multiparty quantum computation is still smaller than the previous protocol 
Efficient decomposition of multiqubit operators is critical in the execution of quantum algorithms. In this paper, we introduce decompositions of the multiple controlled-Z (CCZ and CCCZ) gates tailored to various qubitcoupling graphs. Specifically, we demonstrate that the CCZ gate is realized with CZ-depth 4 on a square-shaped qubit-coupling graph utilizing one auxiliary qubit. As for the CCCZ gate, previous research indicated that the decomposition requires 14 CZ gates in a fully connected topology. However, our findings reveal that only four specific qubit couplings are needed to achieve a decomposition using the same number of CZ gates, 14. Our research employs an optimization method to improve the alignment of parametrized quantum circuits with their intended quantum gates, which facilitates these efficient decompositions. This methodology is versatile and can be applied to decompose any quantum gates, not just the CCZ and CCCZ gates. These advancements in decomposing multiqubit gates, coupled with our CCZ and CCCZ decompositions, are poised to reduce quantum circuit execution times and enhance the efficiency of complex quantum algorithms in imminent quantum computing applications.
Although genuine multipartite entanglement (GME), as one quantum resource, is indispensable in quantum information processing, most of the existing measures cannot detect GME faithfully. In this paper we present a GME measure, namely, the minimum pairwise concurrence (MPC), by introducing pairwise entanglement, which characterizes the entanglement between two single-qubit subsystems of a multipartite system without tracing out the remaining qubit. The pairwise entanglement can be obtained by combining the entanglement of the reduced subsystem and the three-tangle. Compared with existing measures, the MPC measure outperforms the previous ones in many aspects. Due to its fine properties, it thus is believed that the MPC could be a good candidate for achieving potential quantum tasks and also could facilitate the understanding of GME.
Many-body quantum systems can be characterized using the notions of k-separability and entanglement depth. A quantum state is k-separable if it can be expressed as a mixture of k entangled subsystems, and its entanglement depth is given by the size of the largest entangled subsystem. In this paper we propose a multipartite entanglement measure that satisfies the following criteria: (i) It can be used with both pure and mixed states; (ii) it is encoded in a single element of the density matrix, so it does not require knowledge of the full spectrum of the density matrix; (iii) it can be applied to large systems; and (iv) it can be experimentally verified. The proposed method allows the certification of non-k-separability of a given quantum state. We show that the proposed method successfully classifies three-qubit systems into known stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) classes, namely, bipartite, W -, and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-type entanglement. Furthermore, we characterize the non-k-separability in nine known SLOCC classes of four-qubit states and absolutely maximally entangled states for five and six qubits and for arbitrary-size-qubit Dicke states.
Many-body quantum systems can be characterized using the notions of k-separability and entanglement depth. A quantum state is k-separable if it can be expressed as a mixture of k entangled subsystems, and its entanglement depth is given by the size of the largest entangled subsystem. In this paper we propose a multipartite entanglement measure that satisfies the following criteria: (i) It can be used with both pure and mixed states; (ii) it is encoded in a single element of the density matrix, so it does not require knowledge of the full spectrum of the density matrix; (iii) it can be applied to large systems; and (iv) it can be experimentally verified. The proposed method allows the certification of non-k-separability of a given quantum state. We show that the proposed method successfully classifies three-qubit systems into known stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) classes, namely, bipartite, W -, and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-type entanglement. Furthermore, we characterize the non-k-separability in nine known SLOCC classes of four-qubit states and absolutely maximally entangled states for five and six qubits and for arbitrary-size-qubit Dicke states.
We consider the Bennett-Brassard cryptographic scheme, which uses two conjugate quantum bases. An eavesdropper who attempts to obtain information on qubits sent in one of the bases causes a disturbance to qubits sent in the other basis. We derive an upper bound to the accessible information in one basis, for a given error rate in the conjugate basis. Independently fixing the error rates in the conjugate bases, we show that both bounds can be attained simultaneously by an optimal eavesdropping probe. The probe interaction and its subsequent measurement are described explicitly. These results are combined to give an expression for the optimal information an eavesdropper can obtain for a given average disturbance when her interaction and measurements are performed signal by signal. Finally, the relation between quantum cryptography and violations of Bell's inequalities is discussed. ͓S1050-2947͑97͒01708-3͔
Using just polarizing beam splitters and half-wave plates, we present a practical experimental scheme, by which one can conveniently identify two of the three-particle Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒ states. The scheme can easily be generalized to the N-particle case. The GHZ-state analyzer is essential for multiparticle generalizations of quantum dense coding, quantum teleportation, and entanglement swapping.
Entanglement of quantum variables is usually thought to be a prerequisite for obtaining quantum speedups of information processing tasks such as searching databases. This paper presents methods for quantum search that give a speedup over classical methods, but that do not require entanglement. These methods rely instead on interference to provide a speedup. Search without entanglement comes at a cost: although they outperform analogous classical devices, the quantum devices that perform the search are not universal quantum computers and require exponentially greater overhead than a quantum computer that operates using entanglement. Quantum search without entanglement is compared to classical search using waves.
A single 40 Ca ϩ ion is confined in a linear Paul trap and Doppler-cooled on the S 1/2 to P 1/2 dipole transition. Then the narrow quadrupole S 1/2 to D 5/2 transition at 729 nm is probed. The observed spectrum is interpreted in terms of the Zeeman substructure superimposed with oscillation sidebands due to the harmonic motion in the trap. The height of the motional sidebands provides a sensitive method to determine the ion's temperature and thus allows us to test sub-Doppler laser cooling schemes needed for quantum state preparation and quantum computation. We also observe the dynamics induced by Rabi oscillations on a carrier transition and interpret it in terms of the thermal state which is reached after Doppler cooling.
Coupling nanocrystals ͑quantum dots͒ to a high-Q whispering gallery mode ͑WGM͒ of a silica microsphere, can produce a strong coherent interaction between the WGM and the electronic states of the dots. Shifting the resonance frequencies of the dots, for instance by placing the entire system in an electric potential, then allows this interaction to be controlled, permitting entangling interactions between different dots in a way analogous to the ion-trap computer of Cirac and Zoller. Thus, a more advanced system of this type could potentially be used to implement a simple quantum computer.
We simulate Shor's algorithm using the Ising spin quantum computer. The influence of nonresonant effects is analyzed in detail. It is shown that the method developed earlier in our papers successfully suppresses nonresonant effects even for relatively large values of the Rabi frequency.
The operation of a solid-state superconducting quantum computer based on clean Josephson junctions between two d-wave superconductors is considered. We show that freezing of passive qubits can be achieved using a dynamic global refocusing technique. Further, we demonstrate that a universal set of gates can be realized on this system, thereby proving its universality.
We give a complete, hierarchic classification for arbitrary multiqubit mixed states based on the separability properties of certain partitions. We introduce a family of N-qubit states to which any arbitrary state can be depolarized. This family can be viewed as the generalization of Werner states to multiqubit systems. We fully classify those states with respect to their separability and distillability properties. This provides sufficient conditions for nonseparability and distillability for arbitrary states.
We consider a quantum computer with n quantum bits ͑''qubits''͒, where each qubit is coupled independently to an environment affecting the state in a dephasing or depolarizing way. For mixed states we define a parameter indicating quantum uncertainty on the macroscopic level. We illustrate in which sense a large parameter can be seen as an indicator for large entanglement and give hypersurfaces enclosing the set of separable states. Using methods of the classical theory of maximum likelihood estimation we prove that this parameter is decreasing with 1/ͱn for all those states which have been exposed to the environment. Furthermore we consider a quantum computer with perfect 1-qubit gates and two-qubit gates with a depolarizing error and show that any state which can be obtained from a separable initial state lies inbetween a family of pairs of certain hypersurfaces parallel to those enclosing the separable ones.
We report the simulations of the dynamics of quantum-logic operations with large number of qubits ͑up to 1000͒. A nuclear-spin chain in which selective excitations of spins are provided by the gradient of the external magnetic field is considered. The spins interact with their nearest neighbors. We simulate the quantum controlled-NOT ͑CN͒ gate implementation for remote qubits, which provides the long-distance entanglement. Our approach can be applied to any implementation of quantum-logic gates involving a large number of qubits.
We present optimal measuring strategies for an estimation of the entanglement of unknown two-qubit pure states and of the degree of mixing of unknown single-qubit mixed states, of which N identical copies are available. The most general measuring strategies are considered in both situations, to conclude in the first case that a local, although collective, measurement suffices to estimate entanglement, a nonlocal property, optimally.
We consider a general proposal for generating a train of entangled single-photon wavepackets. The photons are created inside a resonator via an interaction with an active medium. In the course of the generation process photons are transferred to the continuum outside the resonator through cavity loss. We show that wave packets generated in this way can be regarded as independent logical qubits. This and the possibility of producing strong entanglement between the qubits suggests many applications in quantum communication. We give a specific example in the context of cavity QED and show that undesired decoherence effects can be efficiently reduced in the considered scheme.
In the conventional picture of quantum feedback control, sensors perform measurements on the system, a classical controller processes the results of the measurements, and actuators supply semiclassical potentials to alter the behavior of the quantum system. In this picture, the sensors tend to destroy coherence in the process of making measurements, and although the controller can use the actuators to act coherently on the quantum system, it is processing and feeding back classical information. This paper proposes an alternative method for quantum feedback control, in which the sensors, controller, and actuators are quantum systems that interact coherently with the system to be controlled. In this picture, the controller gets, processes, and feeds back quantum information. Controllers that operate using such quantum feedback loops can perform tasks such as entanglement transfer that are not possible using classical feedback. Necessary and sufficient conditions are presented for Hamiltonian quantum systems to be controllable and observable using both classical and quantum feedback.
The entanglement dependence of the noncyclic geometric phase is analyzed. A pair of noninteracting spin-1 2 particles prepared in an arbitrarily entangled state and precessing in an external time-independent uniform magnetic field is considered. It is shown that the geometric phase reduces to a sum of one-particle geometric phases for product states and takes on the two values corresponding to the phase factors Ϯ1 for maximally entangled states. If only one of the particles is affected by the magnetic field it is demonstrated that the influence of entanglement on the geometric phase may be interpreted as an effective reduction of the degree of polarization of the affected particle. The generalization to more than two precessing spin-1 2 particles, in the particular case where Schmidt decompositions exists, is briefly outlined. The geometric phase for a pair of spin-1 2 particles with a spin-spin interaction is calculated. In this model we show that the noncyclic geometric phase for a certain class of states may be interpreted solely in terms of the solid angle enclosed by the geodesically closed curve on a two-sphere parametrized by the evolving Schmidt coefficients. This suggests a geometric interpretation of Schmidt decompositions for spin-1 2 pairs analogous to that of the Poincare ´sphere for a single spin 1 2 .
We discuss how quantum information distribution can improve the performance of some quantum computation tasks. This distribution can be naturally implemented with different types of quantum cloning procedures. We give two examples of tasks for which cloning provides some enhancement in performance, and briefly discuss possible extensions of the idea.
An NMR realization of a two-qubit quantum gate which processes quantum information indirectly via couplings to a spectator qubit is presented in the context of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm. This enables a successful comprehensive NMR implementation of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm for functions with three argument bits and demonstrates a technique essential for multi-qubit quantum computation.
We investigate the use of concatenated coding to protect against dephasing in the absence of other types of error in order to carry out large quantum computations. This analysis is based on a well-known three-bit quantum code. Fault tolerant methods for carrying out gate operations, ancilla preparation, and syndrome identification are discussed and the maximum ͑or threshold͒ error rate which can be tolerated ͑if quantum coherence is to be maintained for arbitrarily long computations͒ is estimated. The methods for performing fault tolerant gate operations are compared to the methods appropriate for the seven-bit code and it is concluded that the three-bit code is not likely to be useful for large-scale quantum computation.
We propose mixed states in two qubits that have a property that the amount of entanglement of these states cannot be increased by any unitary transformation. The property is proven when the rank of the states is less than 4, and confirmed numerically in the other general cases. The corresponding entanglement of formation specified by its eigenvalues gives an upper bound of that for density matrices with the same eigenvalues. Further, as a simple application of the upper bound of the entanglement of formation, we analyze the entanglement of formation of the state generated by a decohered controlled-NOT gate in the spin-boson model.
With bichromatic fields, it is possible to deterministically produce entangled states of trapped ions. In this paper we present a unified analysis of this process for both weak and strong fields, for slow and fast gates. Simple expressions for the fidelity of creating maximally entangled states of two or an arbitrary number of ions under nonideal conditions are derived and discussed.
We implemented the refined Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm on a three-bit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computer. All of the balanced and constant functions were realized exactly. The results agree well with theoretical predictions and clearly distinguish the balanced functions from constant functions. Efficient refocusing schemes were proposed for the soft z pulse and J coupling, and it is shown that the thermal equilibrium state gives the same answer as the pure state for this algorithm.
We analyze the entangling capabilities of unitary transformations U acting on a bipartite (d 1 ϫd 2 )-dimensional quantum system. To this aim we introduce an entangling power measure e(U) given by the mean linear entropy produced acting with U on a given distribution of pure product states. This measure admits a natural interpretation in terms of quantum operations. For a uniform distribution explicit analytical results are obtained using group-theoretic arguments. The behavior of the features of e(U) as the subsystem dimensions d 1 and d 2 are varied is studied both analytically and numerically. The two-qubit case d 1 ϭd 2 ϭ2 is argued to be peculiar.
We propose a probabilistic quantum cloning scheme using Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒ states, Bellbasis measurements, single-qubit unitary operations, and generalized measurements, all of which are within the reach of current technology. Compared to another possible scheme via Tele-controlled-NOT gate ͓D. Gottesman and I. L. Chuang, Nature ͑London͒ 402, 390 ͑1999͔͒, the present scheme may be used in experiment to clone the states of one particle to those of two different particles with higher probability and less GHZ resources.
Necessary conditions for separability are most easily expressed in the computational basis, while sufficient conditions are most conveniently expressed in the spin basis. We use the Hadamard matrix to define the relationship between these two bases and to emphasize its interpretation as a Fourier transform. We then prove a general sufficient condition for complete separability in terms of the spin coefficients and give necessary and sufficient conditions for the complete separability of a class of generalized Werner densities. As a further application of the theory, we give necessary and sufficient conditions for full separability for a particular set of n-qubit states whose densities all satisfy the Peres condition.
Dielectric four-port devices play an important role in optical quantum information processing. Since for causality reasons the permittivity is a complex function of frequency, dielectrics are typical examples of noisy quantum channels, which cannot preserve quantum coherence. To study the effects of quantum decoherence, we start from the quantized electromagnetic field in an arbitrary Kramers-Kronig dielectric of given complex permittivity and construct the transformation relating the output quantum state to the input quantum state, without placing restrictions on the frequency. We apply the formalism to some typical examples in quantum communication. In particular we show that for Fock-entangled qubits the Bell-basis states ͉⌿ Ϯ ͘ are more robust against decoherence than the states ͉⌽ Ϯ ͘.
We report on the microscopic imaging of individual sites of an optical lattice with a period of 5.3 m created by a retroreflected, focused CO 2 -laser beam. In this one-dimensional lattice, the Lamb-Dicke limit is fulfilled in all three spatial dimensions. Single lattice sites have been individually addressed with a focused near-resonant laser beam. Because of the negligible decoherence rate from spontaneous photon scattering such a lattice holds intriguing prospects for the realization of fault-tolerant quantum logic gates.
We calculate the Pancharatnam phase difference obtained when entangled two-photon states interfere. This phase depends nontrivially on the degree of entanglement between the photons forming the two-photon state. We outline an experiment where the entanglement dependence of the two-photon phase may be studied interferometrically. Also we propose how a cyclic version of this phase may be useful for implementing an efficient quantum gate.
Invertible local transformations of a multipartite system are used to define equivalence classes in the set of entangled states. This classification concerns the entanglement properties of a single copy of the state. Accordingly, we say that two states have the same kind of entanglement if both of them can be obtained from the other by means of local operations and classical communication ͑LOCC͒ with nonzero probability. When applied to pure states of a three-qubit system, this approach reveals the existence of two inequivalent kinds of genuine tripartite entanglement, for which the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and a W state appear as remarkable representatives. In particular, we show that the W state retains maximally bipartite entanglement when any one of the three qubits is traced out. We generalize our results both to the case of higher-dimensional subsystems and also to more than three subsystems, for all of which we show that, typically, two randomly chosen pure states cannot be converted into each other by means of LOCC, not even with a small probability of success.
Maximum-likelihood estimation is applied to identification of an unknown quantum-mechanical process. In contrast to linear reconstruction schemes, the proposed approach always yields physically sensible results. Its feasibility is demonstrated by performing the Monte Carlo simulations for the two-level system ͑single qubit͒.
We investigate the entanglement properties of multiparticle systems, concentrating on the case where the entanglement is robust against the disposal of particles. Two qubits-belonging to a multipartite system-are entangled in this sense if their reduced density matrix is entangled. We introduce a family of multiqubit states, for which one can choose for any pair of qubits independently whether they should be entangled or not as well as the relative strength of the entanglement, thus providing the possibility to construct all kinds of ''entanglement molecules.'' For some particular configurations, we also give the maximal amount of entanglement achievable.
We study separability properties in a five-dimensional set of states of quantum systems composed of three subsystems of equal but arbitrary finite Hilbert space dimension. These are the states that can be written as linear combinations of permutation operators, or equivalently, commute with unitaries of the form U U U. We compute explicitly the following subsets and their extreme points: ͑1͒ triseparable states, which are convex combinations of triple tensor products, ͑2͒ biseparable states, which are separable for a twofold partition of the system, and ͑3͒ states with positive partial transpose with respect to such a partition. Tripartite entanglement is investigated in terms of the relative entropy of tripartite entanglement and of the trace norm.
For a system of N spins there are quantum states that can encode a direction in an intrinsic way. Information on this direction can later be decoded by means of a quantum measurement. We present here the optimal encoding and decoding procedure using the fidelity as a figure of merit. We compute the maximal fidelity and prove that it is directly related to the largest zeros of the Legendre and Jacobi polynomials. We show that this maximal fidelity approaches unity quadratically in 1/N. We also discuss this result in terms of the dimension of the encoding Hilbert space.
We present a method to entangle qubits or qutrits ͑where He quantum information is stored in spin 1 systems͒, belonging to N distant users. All the operations ͑unitary transformations and measurements͒ needed to achieve our goal are performed in a center of distribution C. This procedure supplies the N users with a powerful resource ͑multiparticle entanglement͒ without requiring any effort on their side. We show that entangled qutrits generated with this scheme can be used for secret sharing between N users. Qutrit secret sharing is argued to be optimal.
Quantum-dot cellular automata ͑QCA͒, arrays of coupled quantum-dot devices, are proposed for quantum computing. The notion of coherent QCA ͑CQCA͒ is introduced in order to distinguish QCA applied to quantum computing from classical digital QCA. Information is encoded in the spatial state of the electrons in the multidot system. A line of CQCA cells can work as a quantum register. The basic single-and multi-qubit operations can be realized by pulses given to the cell electrodes.
In this paper is shown an application of Clifford algebras to the construction of computationally universal sets of quantum gates for n-qubit systems. It is based on the well-known application of Lie algebras together with the especially simple commutation law for Clifford algebras, which states that all basic elements either commute or anticommute.
A closer examination of Eberly ''revivals,'' Berry ''quantum fractals,'' and Schleich ''carpets'' exposes a simple unitary-cyclic group structure in the dynamics of wave packets for rotorlike systems with quadratic spectra. Quantum quasifractal patterns are revealed to be permeated by self-similar ''X-braid'' structures seen by Hofstadter in Zeeman-perturbed band structures and in other spectra related to circle maps. The patterns are shown to correspond to revival dynamics in the flow of energy or information through these N-level systems with X-braids being directly related to quantum beats or elementary U͑2͒ resonance transfer. C N -group analysis and Farey arithmetic discretely catalog X-braid hierarchy and suggest the possibility of homocyclic nanostructures or C N circuits that are base-N digital quantum computing registers. The phase dynamics corresponds to a fairly sophisticated integer arithmetic that includes an output of all rational numbers resolvable by a given energy input. C N circuits automatically give all factors of N. The dynamics of a C 6 device is discussed in detail.
We study the entanglement in the quantum Heisenberg XY model in which the so-called W entangled states can be generated for 3 or 4 qubits. By the concept of concurrence, we study the entanglement in the time evolution of the XY model. We investigate the thermal entanglement in the two-qubit isotropic XY model with a magnetic field and in the anisotropic XY model, and find that the thermal entanglement exists for both ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic cases. Some evidences of the quantum phase transition also appear in these simple models.
Recently, Zhang, Li, and Guo have proposed a particular eavesdropping
We present a method to protect the entanglement in a maximally entangled n-qubit state of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger or ''Schro ¨dinger cat'' form against decoherence, by pairing up each qubit with another one in such a way that each pair of qubits undergoes collective decoherence. Under these conditions, if t pairs experience an error, we show how one can still, in general, extract a maximally entangled state of the remaining nϪt pairs. Two versions of the method are considered: one of them applies when the locations of the decohered qubits are known, and it might be useful, for instance, in secret-sharing protocols. Another version, which is free from this restriction, provides only partial protection ͑the resulting state is, generally, not a maximally entangled state͒, but could nonetheless be useful for the important special case in which the source of error is spontaneous emission.
We consider several problems that involve finding the eigenvalues and generating the eigenstates of unknown unitary gates. We first examine controlled-U gates that act on qubits and assume that we know the eigenvalues. It is then shown how to use singlet states to produce qubits in the eigenstates of the gate. We then remove the assumption that we know the eigenvalues and show how to both find the eigenvalues and produce qubits in the eigenstates. Finally, we look at the case where the unitary operation acts on qutrits and it has two eigenvalues of 1 and one of Ϫ1. We are able to use a singlet state to produce a qutrit in the eigenstate corresponding to the Ϫ1 eigenvalue.
We investigate separability and entanglement of mixed states in C 2 C 2 C N three party quantum systems. We show that all states with positive partial transposes that have rank рN are separable. For the three-qubit case (Nϭ2) we prove that all states that have positive partial transposes and rank three are separable. We also provide constructive separability checks for the states that have the sum of the rank of and the ranks of partial transposes with respect to all subsystems smaller than 15NϪ1.
For some time, the theoretical result for the transition temperature of a dilute three-dimensional Bose gas in an arbitrarily wide harmonic trap has been known to first order in the interaction strength. We extend that result to second order. The first-order result for a gas trapped in a harmonic potential can be computed in mean-field theory ͑in contrast to the first-order result for a uniform gas, which cannot͒. We show that, at second order, perturbation theory suffices for relating the transition temperature to the chemical potential at the transition, but the chemical potential is nonperturbative at the desired order. The necessary information about the chemical potential can be extracted, however, from recent lattice simulations of uniform Bose gases.
Recently, Levy has shown that quantum computation may be performed using an ABAB . . . chain of spin-1/2 systems with nearest-neighbor Heisenberg interactions. Levy notes that all necessary elementary computational ''gates'' may be achieved purely by manipulating the spin-spin interaction: he proposes using ''spin-resonance'' techniques involving modulating the interaction strength at high frequency. Here, we establish an alternative: it is possible to perform the elementary gates via simple, nonoscillatory switching of the interaction strength. This approach removes a time ''bottle neck'' in Levy's scheme, so that all elementary operations may now be performed within a time scale of order ប/(E A ϪE B ).
Coulomb blockade effects in capacitively coupled quantum dots can be utilized for constructing an N-qubit system with antiferromagnetic Ising interactions. Starting from the tunneling Hamiltonian, we theoretically show that the Hamiltonian for a weakly coupled quantum-dot array is reduced to that for nuclear-magneticresonance ͑NMR͒ spectroscopy. Quantum operations are carried out by applying only electrical pulse sequences. Thus various error-correction methods developed in NMR spectroscopy and NMR quantum computers are applicable without using magnetic fields. A possible measurement scheme in an N-qubit system is quantitatively discussed.
We derive an extremal equation for an optimal completely positive map, which most closely approximates a given transformation between pure quantum states. Moreover, we also obtain an upper bound on the maximal mean fidelity that can be attained by the optimal approximate transformation. The developed formalism is applied to a universal-NOT gate, quantum cloning machines, quantum entanglers, and a qubit shifter.
The dynamics of a generic quantum XOR gate operation involving two interacting qubits being coupled to a bath of quantum harmonic oscillators is explored. By use of the formally exact quasiadiabatic-propagator path-integral methodology we study the time-resolved evolution of this interacting and decohering two-qubit system in presence of time-dependent external fields. The quality of the XOR gate operation is monitored by evaluating the four characteristic gate quantifiers: fidelity, purity, the quantum degree, and the entanglement capability of the gate. Two different types of errors for the XOR operation have been modeled, i.e., ͑i͒ bit-flip errors and ͑ii͒ phase errors. The various quantifiers are systematically investigated vs the strength of the interqubit coupling and vs both, the environmental temperature and the ͑Ohmic-like͒ bath-interaction strength. Our main findings are that these four gate quantifiers depend only very weakly on temperature, but are extremely sensitive to the bath-interaction strength. Interestingly enough, however, we find that the XOR gate operation deteriorates only weakly upon decreasing the interqubit coupling strength. This generic case study yields lower bounds on the quality of realistic XOR gate operations.
Quantum secret-sharing protocols involving N partners are key distribution protocols in which Alice encodes her key into NϪ1 qubits, in such a way that all the other partners must cooperate in order to retrieve the key. On these protocols, several eavesdropping scenarios are possible: some partners may want to reconstruct the key without the help of the other ones, and consequently collaborate with an Eve that eavesdrops on the other partners' channels. For each of these scenarios, we give the optimal individual attack that Eve can perform. A link with Bell's inequality is demonstrated analytically for half of the scenarios, and is conjectured on the basis of numerical estimates for the other scenarios: the authorized partners have a higher information on the key than the unauthorized ones if and only if they can violate a Bell's inequality.
The nonresonant interaction between the high-density excitons in a quantum well and a single-mode cavity field is investigated. An analytical expression for the physical spectrum of the excitons is obtained. The spectral properties of the excitons, which are initially prepared in the number states or the superposed states of the two different number states by the resonant femtosecond pulse pumping experiment, are studied. A numerical study of the physical spectrum is carried out and a discussion of the detuning effect is presented.
A proof of Bell's theorem without inequalities valid for both inequivalent classes of three-qubit entangled states under local operations assisted by classical communication, namely Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒ and W, is described. This proof leads to a Bell inequality that allows more conclusive tests of Bell's theorem for three-qubit systems. Another Bell inequality involving both tri-and bipartite correlations is introduced which illustrates the different violations of local realism exhibited by the GHZ and W states.
The Pauli operators ͑tensor products of Pauli matrices͒ provide a complete basis of operators on the Hilbert space of N qubits. We prove that the set of 4 N Ϫ1 Pauli operators may be partitioned into 2 N ϩ1 distinct subsets, each consisting of 2 N Ϫ1 internally commuting observables. Furthermore, each such partitioning defines a unique choice of 2 N ϩ1 mutually unbiased basis sets in the N-qubit Hilbert space. Examples for 2 and 3 qubit systems are discussed with emphasis on the nature and amount of entanglement that occurs within these basis sets.
An optimal universal cloning transformation is derived that produces M copies of an unknown qubit from a pair of orthogonal qubits. For M Ͼ6, the corresponding cloning fidelity is higher than that of the optimal copying of a pair of identical qubits. It is shown that this cloning transformation can be implemented probabilistically via parametric down conversion by feeding the signal and idler modes of a nonlinear crystal with orthogonally polarized photons.
We sympathetically cool a trapped 112 Cd ϩ ion by directly Doppler cooling a 114 Cd ϩ ion in the same trap. This is the first demonstration of optically addressing a single trapped ion being sympathetically cooled by a different species ion. Notably, the experiment uses a single laser source, and does not require strong focusing. This paves the way toward reducing decoherence in an ion trap quantum computer based on Cd ϩ isotopes.
We demonstrate that quantum-information processing can be implemented with ions trapped in a far detuned optical cavity. For sufficiently large detuning the system becomes insensitive to cavity decay. Following recent experimental progress, this scheme can be implemented with currently or soon available technology.
We present an experimental scheme of preparing the tripartite W state via cavity quantum electrodynamics. The discussion of this scheme indicates that it can be realized by current technologies. Also, this scheme can be directly generalized to prepare the general n-qubit W states.
We propose a numerical algorithm for finding optimal measurements for quantum-state discrimination. The theory of the semidefinite programming provides a simple check of the optimality of the numerically obtained results. With the help of our algorithm we calculate the minimum attainable error rate of a device discriminating between three particularly chosen pure qubit states.
Endohedral fullerenes N@C 60 and N@C 70 were dissolved in a liquid crystal and investigated by electron paramagnetic resonance. Sharp, liquid solution like spectra are observed. However, contrary to the usual solution spectra, the lines are split, indicating that the electron shell of the enclosed nitrogen atom is deformed and that an alignment with respect to the magnetic-field axis is achieved. The present results are of practical interest for controlling the interaction of endohedral fullerenes in a quantum computer.
Equivalent-neighbor interactions of the conduction-band electron spins of quantum dots in the model of Imamog ¯lu et al. ͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 4204 ͑1999͔͒ are analyzed. An analytical solution and its Schmidt decomposition are found and applied to evaluate how much the initially excited dots can be entangled with the remaining dots if all of them are initially disentangled. It is demonstrated that perfect maximally entangled states ͑MES's͒ can only be generated in systems of up to six dots with a single dot initially excited. It is also shown that highly entangled states, approximating the MES's with good accuracy, can still be generated in systems of odd numbers of dots with almost half of them excited. A sudden decrease of entanglement is observed on increasing the total number of dots in a system with a fixed number of excitations.
A single 137 Ba ϩ ion has been laser cooled to the first few vibrational states of an 80-m radius rf quadrupole trap. Initial measurements showed no anomalous heating of the vibrational phonon for observation times up to 1 ms, corresponding to a heating rate less than 3.3 phonons/ms at a 95% confidence level. Subsequently we observed the growth of large and unstable bias voltages that were correlated with exposure to the atomic beam. After loading over 250 ions over a period of 720 days the trap became unstable, with ion lifetimes Ͻ1 min. A possible connection between this trap instability and anomalous heating observed in quantum computation experiments is discussed. An isotopically selectively laser cooling method was used to refine 137 Ba ions out of a naturally abundant cloud.
Quantum computation in molecular magnets is studied by solving the time-dependent Schro ¨dinger equation numerically. Following Leuenberger and Loss ͓Nature ͑London͒ 410, 789 ͑2001͔͒, an external alternating magnetic field is applied to populate and manipulate a superposition of single-spin states in molecular magnet Mn 12 . The conditions to realize parallel recording and reading databases of Grover algorithms in molecular magnets are discussed in detail. It is found that an accurate time duration of the magnetic pulse as well as the discrete frequency spectrum and the amplitudes are required to design a quantum computing device.
Secure communication requires message authentication. In this paper we address the problem of how to authenticate quantum information sent through a quantum channel between two communicating parties with the minimum amount of resources. Specifically, our objective is to determine whether one elementary quantum message ͑a qubit͒ can be authenticated with a key of minimum length. We show that, unlike the case of classical-message quantum authentication, this is not possible.
We apply majorization theory to study the quantum algorithms known so far and find that there is a majorization principle underlying the way they operate. Grover's algorithm is a neat instance of this principle where majorization works step by step until the optimal target state is found. Extensions of this situation are also found in algorithms based in quantum adiabatic evolution and the family of quantum phase-estimation algorithms, including Shor's algorithm. We state that in quantum algorithms the time arrow is a majorization arrow.
We investigate the evolution of a single qubit subject to a continuous unitary ''free'' dynamics and an additional interrupting influence which occurs periodically. One may imagine a dynamically evolving closed quantum system which becomes open at certain times. The interrupting influence is represented by an operation, which is assumed to equivalently describe a nonselective weak measurement. It may be decomposed into the action of a positive operator, which in the case of a measurement represents the pure measurement part, followed by a unitary backaction depending on the result of the measurement ͑feedback͒. Equations of motion for the state evolution are derived in the form of difference equations. In the lowest order, the stochastic feedbacks cause a modification of the ''free'' Hamiltonian by an additional appropriately averaged Hamiltonian. The positive operator specifies a decoherence rate and results in a decoherence term. Two higher-order terms are discussed. One shows decoherence induced by the stochastic feedbacks and the other represents generalized friction. The selective evolution is investigated. In order to bridge the gap between sequential and continuous measurements, the continuum limit to a master equation is performed. Additional correcting higherorder terms are worked out in the Appendixes.
Preparation of entangled pairs of coupled two-state systems driven by a bichromatic external field is studied. We use a system of two coupled spin-1 2 particles that can be translated into a three-state ladder model whose intermediate state represents the entangled state. We show that this entangled state can be prepared in a robust way with appropriate fields. Their frequencies and envelopes are derived from the topological properties of the model.
We study the entanglement of thermal and ground states in the Heisenberg XX qubit rings with a magnetic field. A general result is found that for even-number rings, pairwise entanglement between nearest-neighbor qubits is independent of both the sign of exchange interaction constants and the sign of magnetic fields. As an example we study the entanglement in the four-qubit model and find that the ground state of this model without magnetic fields is shown to be a four-body maximally entangled state measured by the square N-bit concurrence.
We explore the role played by the phase in an accurate description of the entanglement of bipartite systems. We first present an appropriate polar decomposition that leads to a truly Hermitian operator for the phase of a single qubit. We also examine the positive operator-valued measures that can describe the qubit phase properties. When dealing with two qubits, the relative phase seems to be a natural variable to understand entanglement. In this spirit, we propose a measure of entanglement based on this variable.
It is shown that the correlations between two qubits selected from a trio prepared in a W state violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality more than the correlations between two qubits in any quantum state. Such a violation beyond Cirel'son's bound is smaller than the one achieved by two qubits selected from a trio in a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state ͓A. Cabello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 88, 060403 ͑2002͔͒. However, it has the advantage that all local observers can know from their own measurements whether or not their qubits belong to the selected pair.
The Bru ¨schweiler quantum search ͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 4815 ͑2000͔͒ offers an exponential speedup over the corresponding classical search. In the Bru ¨schweiler search, the data bits and measurement bit ͑the ancillary bit͒ are different bits. We propose a modified method, in which no ancillary bit is needed to reach exponential speedup. The modified Bru ¨schweiler search can be easier to design and realize. We also demonstrate the modified search in a three-qubit molecular system using nuclear magnetic resonance.
We present a procedure for quantum teleportation in a nuclear spin quantum computer in which quantum logic gates are implemented by using selective electromagnetic pulses. A sequence of pulses is combined with single-spin measurements in the z basis for fast transfer of information in a spin quantum computer. We simulated this procedure for quantum teleportation in a nuclear spin chain with a large number ͑201͒ of spins. The systematic errors generated in the process of teleportation due to the non-resonant effects are analyzed in detail. We demonstrate that a ''2k'' method provides a significant reduction of errors.
The relation between Bell's inequalities with two two-outcome measurements per site and distillability is analyzed in systems of an arbitrary number of quantum bits. We observe that the violation of any of these inequalities by a quantum state implies that pure-state entanglement can be distilled from it. The corresponding distillation protocol may require that some of the parties join into several groups. We show that there exists a link between the amount of the Bell inequality violation and the size of the groups they have to form for distillation. Thus, a strong violation is always sufficient for full N-partite distillability. This result also allows for a security proof of multipartite quantum key distribution protocols.
In this paper, a method for state measurement in atomic waveguides is presented. Matter waves exiting a terminated waveguide are allowed to expand ballistically. Measurement is performed by spatially resolved detection of laser-induced fluorescence. We describe in detail the motion of wave packets both in the guiding potential and in the region of free expansion. It is shown that different modes can be distinguished in a straightforward manner and that the same is true for coherent superpositions after introduction of a controlled phase shift. The sensitivity of the transition from adiabatic guiding to free expansion is investigated in detail. It is found that adiabatic readjustment, which will distort the original state, can be considerable but may be avoided by proper choice of potential parameters. The method proposed here is shown to be feasible for experiments in atom optics through utilizing numerical estimates.
We present a scheme to produce an entangled four-photon W state by using linear optical elements. The symmetrical setup of linear optical elements consists of four beam splitters, four polarization beam splitters, and four mirrors. A photon Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pair and two single photons are required as the input modes. The projection on the W state can be made by a four-photon coincidence measurement. Further, we show that by means of a horizontally oriented polarizer in front of one detector, the W state of three photons can be generated.
Analyzing the S matrices associated with a host of relaxation processes allows one, using extra ''chaperon'' states, to construct a decoherence-free subspace ͑DFS͒ that is immune to the effects of relaxation. The method does not require knowledge of the system-bath Hamiltonian, which is rarely known. Thus, a DFS can be constructed directly from experimentally determined relaxation and dephasing rates of the relevant decoherence processes. Although the method requires resetting the coefficients of the chaperon states at various times, this resetting does not require determining the coefficients of the states belonging to the DFS that one uses for control, computations, or information storage.
We investigate properties of the structural physical approximation ͑SPA͒ of the partial transposition map recently introduced by Horodecki and Ekert ͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 127902 ͑2002͔͒. We focus on the case of two-qubit states and show that in this case the map has the structure of a generalized quantum measurement followed by the preparation of a suitable output state. We also introduce SPA for a map that transforms two copies of density matrix of a single qubit onto a square of that matrix. We prove that also this map is essentially a generalized quantum measurement.
We introduce a general method for the experimental detection of entanglement by performing only few local measurements, assuming some prior knowledge of the density matrix. The idea is based on the minimal decomposition of witness operators into a pseudomixture of local operators. We discuss an experimentally relevant case of two qubits, and show an example how bound entanglement can be detected with few local measurements.
The entanglement of excitonic states in a system of N spatially separated semiconductor microcrystallites is investigated. The interaction among the different microcrystallites is mediated by a single-mode cavity field. It is found that the symmetric sharing of the entanglement ͑measured by the concurrence͒ between any pair of the excitonic state with N qubits defined by the number states ͑vacuum and a single-exciton states͒ or the coherent states ͑odd and even coherent states͒ can be prepared by the cavity field for this system.
͑2000͔͒. In this paper we study entanglement teleportation via two separate thermally entangled states of a two-qubit Heisenberg XX chain. We established the condition under which the parameters of the model have to satisfy in order to teleport entanglement. The necessary minimum amount of thermal entanglement for some fixed strength of exchange coupling is a function of the magnetic field and the temperature.
We present a method of implementation of general projective measurement of the two-photon polarization state with the use of linear optics elements only. The scheme presented succeeds with a probability of at least 1/16. For some specific measurements ͑e.g., parity measurement͒ this probability reaches 1/4.
Suppose that a quantum circuit with K elementary gates is known for a unitary matrix U, and assume that U m is a scalar matrix for some positive integer m. We show that a function of U can be realized on a quantum computer with at most O(mKϩm 2 ln m) elementary gates. The functions of U are realized by a generic quantum circuit, which has a particularly simple structure. Among other results, we obtain efficient circuits for the fractional Fourier transform.
We propose a generalization of quantum teleportation: the so-called many-to-many quantum communication of the information of a d-level system from N spatially separated senders to M ϾN receivers situated at different locations. We extend the concept of asymmetric telecloning from qubits to d-dimensional systems. We investigate the broadcasting of entanglement by using local 1→2 optimal universal asymmetric Pauli machines and show that the maximal fidelities of the two final entangled states are obtained when symmetric machines are applied. Cloning of entanglement is studied using a nonlocal optimal universal asymmetric cloning machine and we show that the symmetric machine optimally copies the entanglement. The ''many-tomany'' teleportation scheme is applied in order to distribute entanglement shared between two observers to two pairs of spatially separated observers.
We present a detailed study of the method recently proposed by Yang and Gea-Banacloche ͓Phys. Rev. A 64, 032309 ͑2000͔͒ to protect a maximally entangled state of n atomic qubits against spontaneous-emissioninduced decoherence. We compare this to an approach based on nonradiative states, in the case where the number of thermal photons in the environment is nonzero.
We generalize the notion of relative phase to completely positive ͑CP͒ maps with known unitary representation, based on interferometry. Parallel transport conditions that define the geometric phase for such maps are introduced. The interference effect is embodied in a set of interference patterns defined by flipping the environment state in one of the two paths. We show for the qubit that this structure gives rise to interesting additional information about the geometry of the evolution defined by the CP map.
Bell inequalities for number measurements are derived via the observation that the bits of the number indexing a number state are proper qubits. Violations of these inequalities are obtained from the output state of the nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier.
Geometric quantum computation is extended to the noncyclic case. Adiabatic nuclear magnetic resonance implementations of geometric phase-shift gates at any precession angle and their concomitant fault tolerance with respect to the amplitude of the oscillating field are analyzed. Nonadiabatic one-qubit geometric quantum computation is considered from the noncyclic perspective, with particular emphasis on errors in precession angles.
Uhlmann's mixed state geometric phase ͓Rep. Math. Phys. 24, 229 ͑1986͔͒ is analyzed in the case of a qubit affected by isotropic decoherence treated in the Markovian approximation. It is demonstrated that this phase decreases rapidly with increasing decoherence rate and that it is most fragile to weak decoherence for pure or nearly pure initial states. In the unitary case, we compare Uhlmann's geometric phase for mixed states with that occurring in standard Mach-Zehnder interferometry ͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2845 ͑2000͔͒ and show that the latter is more robust to reduction in the length of the Bloch vector. We also describe how Uhlmann's geometric phase in the present case could in principle be realized experimentally.
The two-qubit interaction Hamiltonian of a given physical implementation determines whether or not a two-qubit gate such as the controlled-NOT ͑CNOT͒ gate can be realized easily. It can be shown that, e.g., with the XY interaction more than one two-qubit operation is required in order to realize the CNOT operation. Here we propose a two-qubit gate for the XY interaction which combines the CNOT and SWAP operations. By using this gate quantum circuits can be implemented efficiently, even if only nearest-neighbor coupling between the qubits is available.
The fast phase gate scheme, in which the qubits are atoms confined in sites of an optical lattice, and gate operations are mediated by excitation of Rydberg states, was proposed by Jaksch et al. ͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2208 ͑2000͔͒. A potential source of decoherence in this system derives from motional heating, which occurs if the ground and Rydberg states of the atom move in different optical lattice potentials. We propose to minimize this effect by choosing the lattice photon frequency , so that the ground and Rydberg states have the same frequency-dependent polarizability ␣(). The results are presented for the case of Rb.
We consider the behavior of quantum states under stochastic local quantum operations and classical communication ͑SLOCC͒ for an arbitrary fixed number of qubits. We use a real ͑Lorentz͒ group to describe the action of SLOCC operations on n-qubit states. We discuss the natural quantum Lorentz-group group-invariant length for an arbitrary number of qubits. We relate this approach to that based on local operations and classical communication and provide an example of how the invariant length can be used to describe entanglement. We also note that this invariant length is the Minkowskian analog to the quantum state purity, which is the corresponding Euclidean length.
In this paper, we study the implementation of nonadiabatic geometrical quantum gates with in semiconductor quantum dots. Different quantum information enconding ͑manipulation͒ schemes exploiting excitonic degrees of freedom are discussed. By means of the Aharanov-Anandan geometrical phase, one can avoid the limitations of adiabatic schemes relying on adiabatic Berry phase; fast geometrical quantum gates can be, in principle, implemented.
We propose two simple implementations of the optimal symmetric 1→2 phase-covariant cloning machine for qubits. The first scheme is designed for qubits encoded into polarization states of photons and it involves a mixing of two photons on an unbalanced beam splitter. This scheme is probabilistic and the cloning succeeds with the probability 1/3. In the second setup, the qubits are represented by the states of Rydberg atoms and the cloning is accomplished by the resonant interaction of the atoms with a microwave field confined in a high-Q cavity. This latter approach allows for deterministic implementation of the optimal cloning transformation.
missing a few modifications previously indicated on the page proofs. In Eq. ͑15͒, the last term in the equation should read Ϯ. On page 042319-3, in the third paragraph in the right-hand column, the first two sentences should read ''In general, the eigenstates are a superposition of singlet/triplet states. Figure 
We investigate on how to generate maximally entangled states in systems characterized by the Hamiltonian of the XXZ model with defects. Some proposed quantum computers are described by such a model. Defects embedded in this otherwise homogeneous spin chain are used to obtain Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen and W states. It is well known that a large defect localizes an excitation on the defect site. We can then consider a few identical and large defects to create a subsystem whose eigenstates are entangled. Here, we examine the cases of one and two excitations.
By means of a simple example, it is demonstrated that the task of finding and identifying certain patterns in an otherwise ͑macroscopically͒ unstructured picture ͑dataset͒ can be accomplished efficiently by a quantum computer. Employing the powerful tool of the quantum Fourier transform, the proposed quantum algorithm exhibits an exponential speedup in comparison with its classical counterpart.
We examine stochastic maps in the context of quantum optics. Making use of the master equation, the damping basis, and the Bloch picture we calculate a nonunital, completely positive, trace-preserving map with unequal damping eigenvalues. This results in what we call the squeezed vacuum channel. A geometrical picture of the effect of stochastic noise on the set of pure state qubit density operators is provided. Finally, we study the capacity of the squeezed vacuum channel to transmit quantum information and to distribute Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen states.
We study the physical implementation of a qutrit quantum computer in the context of trapped ions. Qutrits are defined in terms of electronic levels of trapped ions. We concentrate our attention on a universal two-qutrit gate, which corresponds to a controlled-NOT gate between qutrits. Using this gate and a general gate of an individual qutrit, any gate can be decomposed into a sequence of these gates. In particular, we show how this works for performing the quantum Fourier transform for n qutrits.
We propose an implementation of holonomic ͑geometrical͒ quantum gates by means of semiconductor nanostructures. Our quantum hardware consists of semiconductor macroatoms driven by sequences of ultrafast laser pulses ͑all optical control͒. Our logical bits are Coulomb-correlated electron-hole pairs ͑excitons͒ in a four-level scheme selectively addressed by laser pulses with different polarization. A universal set of singleand two-qubit gates is generated by adiabatic change of the Rabi frequencies of the lasers and by exploiting the dipole coupling between excitons
We develop a distillation protocol for multilevel qubits ͑qudits͒ using generalized beam splitters like in the proposal of Pan et al. for ordinary qubits. We find an acceleration with respect to the scheme of Bennet et al. when extended to qudits. It is also possible to distill entangled pairs of photons carrying orbital angular momenta states that conserve the total angular momenta as those produced in recent experiments.
In this Comment we question the recent analysis of two dense coding protocols presented by Lee, Ahn, and Hwang ͓Phys. Rev. A 66, 024304 ͑2002͔͒. We argue that in the case of two-party communication protocol, there is no reason for using a maximally entangled state of more than two qubits.
We consider quantum teleportation as a tool to investigate the thermally entangled state of a three-qubit Heisenberg XX ring. Our investigation reveals interesting aspects of quantum entanglement not reflected by the pairwise thermal concurrence of the state. In particular, two mixtures of different pairs of W states, which result in the same concurrence, could yield very different average teleportation fidelities.
The thermal entanglement in the Heisenberg XY Z chain is investigated in the presence of an external magnetic field B. In the two-qubit system, the critical magnetic field B c is increased by introducing the interaction of the z component of two neighboring spins J z . This interaction not only improves the critical temperature T c , but also enhances the entanglement for a particular fixed B. We also analyze the pairwise entanglement between nearest neighbors in three qubits. The pairwise entanglement, for a fixed T, can become strong by controlling B and J z .
Analytical expressions for the entanglement measures concurrence, i-concurrence, and 3-tangle in terms of spin correlation functions are derived using general symmetries of the quantum spin system. These relations are exploited for the one-dimensional XXZ model, in particular the concurrence and the critical temperature for disentanglement are calculated for finite systems with up to six qubits. A recent NMR quantum error correction experiment is analyzed within the framework of the proposed theoretical approach.
The concept of off-diagonal geometric phases for mixed quantal states in unitary evolution is developed. We show that these phases arise from three basic ideas: ͑1͒ fulfillment of quantum parallel transport of a complete basis, ͑2͒ a concept of mixed-state orthogonality adapted to unitary evolution, and ͑3͒ a normalization condition. We provide a method for computing the off-diagonal mixed-state phases to any order for unitarities that divide the parallel transported basis of Hilbert space into two parts: one part where each basis vector undergoes cyclic evolution and one part where all basis vectors are permuted among each other. We also demonstrate a purification based experimental procedure for the two lowest-order mixed-state phases and consider a physical scenario for a full characterization of the qubit mixed-state geometric phases in terms of polarization-entangled photon pairs. An alternative second order off-diagonal mixed-state geometric phase, which can be tested in single-particle experiments, is proposed.
We demonstrate the cooling of a two species ion crystal consisting of one 9 Be ϩ and one 24 Mg ϩ ion. Since the respective cooling transitions of these two species are separated by more than 30 nm, laser manipulation of one ion has negligible effect on the other even when the ions are not individually addressed. As such this is a useful system for reinitializing the motional state in an ion trap quantum computer without affecting the qubit information. Additionally, we have found that the mass difference between ions enables a method for detecting and subsequently eliminating the effects of radio frequency micromotion.
An ultrafast pulse shaping scheme is presented that transiently modifies a two-state superposition on the E 1 ⌺ g ϩ curve of the lithium dimer. At short time delays, the wave-function amplitude of one of the states is forced to undergo a sign change, while the sign of the second state is programmed to remain static, analogous to the operation of a quantum-computational Z gate. This is observed as a phase shift in the time-dependent wave-packet signal for pump-probe delays Ͻ1.5 ps, relative to longer time delays, greater than 2.5 ps. This shift in sign is accomplished by taking advantage of the separability of the resonant and nonresonant light field effects in the creation of the excited-state wave function. The results show that, for a single state, the resonant and nonresonant light field effects can either be added or subtracted to create the total time evolution of the excited-state wave-function coefficient. If the nonresonant contributions are subtracted from the resonant ones at a time delay when the nonresonant term dominates, then for a short time the excited-state coefficient will have a sign opposite to that at long time, where the resonant term dominates. A desired phase function is derived to produce the opposition in sign of resonant versus nonresonant contributions, and the experimental transient Z-gate matrix elements are quantified.
A scheme is proposed for implementing a desired transformation of the unknown quantum state of a traveling optical multimode signal. The operator describing this transformation is built up as a polynomial in products of the mode operators. There is no limitation to unitary operators realized by the scheme, the implementation is conditional however, i.e., the desired operator can be realized only with a certain success probability which depends on the respective operator and the input state. While the scheme requires the preparation of single-photon and coherent states, it exclusively makes use of beam splitters and zero-and single-photon detections. The setup consists of a number of stations, each controlling one of the signal modes. The stations share an auxiliary entangled state which has been prepared beforehand. This state is then entangled with each of the signal modes and a measurement is performed of each of the auxiliary modes afterwards. In this way, the stations can be spatially separated from one another, similar to a multimode generalization of a quantum teleportation setup. Some examples of application such as the realization of cross-Kerr nonlinearities, multidirectional quantum teleportation ͑i.e., multimode mirrors͒, and the preparation of multimode Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-like states are considered.
We investigate the thermal entanglement in the two-qubit Heisenberg XY model with a nonuniform magnetic field. Concurrence, the measurement of entanglement, is calculated. The behavior of concurrence is present at three different cases. Contrary to the uniform magnetic field case, we find that the entanglement and the critical temperature T C may be enhanced under a nonuniform magnetic field.
In theorems 1 and 5 and in Remark 2 of the above manuscript, the range of should be ͓0,2͔ ͑rather than ͓0,4͔͒, because for ͓2,4͔
The concept of a qudit ͑a d-level system͒ cluster state is proposed by generalizing the qubit cluster state ͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 910 ͑2001͔͒ to higher-dimensional Hilbert space according to the finite-dimensional representations of quantum plane algebra. We demonstrate their quantum correlations and prove a theorem which guarantees the availability of the qudit cluster states in quantum computation. We explicitly construct the network to show the universality of the one-way computer based on the defined qudit cluster states and single-qudit measurement. A protocol of implementing one-way quantum computer is suggested using the high-dimensional ''Ising'' model which can be found in many magnetic systems.
The N-qubit states of the W class, for NϾ10, lead to more robust ͑against noise admixture͒ violations of local realism, than the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒ states. These violations are most pronounced for correlations for a pair of qubits, conditioned on specific measurement results for the remaining N-2 qubits. The considerations provide us with a qualitative difference between the W state and GHZ state in the situation when they are separately sent via depolarizing channels. For sufficiently high amount of noise in the depolarizing channel, the GHZ states cannot produce a distillable state between two qubits, whereas the W states can still produce a distillable state in a similar situation.
We propose a directly measurable criterion for the entanglement of two qubits. We compare the criterion with other criteria, and we find that for pure states, and some mixed states, it coincides with the state's concurrence. The measure can be obtained with a Bell-state analyzer and the ability to make general local unitary transformations. However, the procedure fails to measure the entanglement of a general mixed twoqubit state.
We discuss the problem of estimating a qubit mixed state. We give the optimal estimation that can be inferred from any given set of measurements. For collective measurements and for a large number N of copies, we show that the error in the estimation varies as 1/N. For local measurements, we focus on the simpler case of states lying on the equatorial plane of the Bloch sphere. We show that the error using plain tomography varies as 1/N 1/4 , while our approach leads to an error proportional to 1/N 3/4 .
We classify multipartite entangled states in the Hilbert space HϭC 2 C 2 C n (nу4), for example, the four-qubit system distributed over three parties, under local filtering operations. We show that there exist nine essentially different classes of states, giving rise to a five-graded partially ordered structure, including the celebrated Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W classes of three qubits. In particular, all 2ϫ2ϫn states can be deterministically prepared from one maximally entangled state, and some applications such as entanglement swapping are discussed.
We calculate the energy eigenvalues and eigenstates corresponding to coherent single and multiple excitations of a number of different arrays of N identical two-level atoms ͑TLA's͒ or qubits, including polygons, ''diamond'' structures, polygon multilayers, icosahedra, and dodecahedra. We assume only that the coupling occurs via an exchange interaction which depends on the separation between the atoms. We include the interactions between all pairs of atoms, and our results are valid for arbitrary separations relative to the radiation wavelength.
Optimized probabilistic teleportation and remote symmetric entangling of an arbitrary logical qubit are studied using particular forms of W-type entangled coherent states. Of interest is the fact that, while the teleportation can alternatively be performed by the GHZ-type entangled coherent states, the remote symmetric entangling strictly requires those of the W type.
The application of dynamical decoupling pulses to a single qubit interacting with a linear harmonic oscillator bath with 1/f ͑more generally, strong low-frequency͒ spectral density is studied, and compared to the Ohmic case. Decoupling pulses that are slower than the fastest bath time scale are shown to drastically reduce the decoherence rate in the 1/f case. Contrary to conclusions drawn from previous studies, this shows that dynamical decoupling pulses do not always have to be ultrafast. Our results explain the recent experiment in which dephasing due to 1/f charge noise affecting a charge qubit in a small superconducting electrode was successfully suppressed using spin-echo-type gate-voltage pulses.
Quantum algorithms are built enabling Poincaré recurrence times and periodic orbits of classical dynamical systems to be found. It is shown that exponential gain compared to classical algorithms can be reached for a restricted class of systems. Quadratic gain can be achieved for a larger set of dynamical systems. The simplest cases can be implemented with a small number of qubits.
We propose quantum devices that can realize probabilistically different projective measurements on a qubit. The desired measurement basis is selected by the quantum state of a program register. First we analyze the phase-covariant multimeters for a large class of program states and then the universal multimeters for a special choice of program. In both cases we start with deterministic but error-prone devices and then proceed to devices that never make a mistake but from time to time give an inconclusive result. These multimeters are optimized (for a given type of program) with respect to the minimum probability of an inconclusive result. This concept is further generalized to multimeters that minimize the error rate for a given probability of an inconclusive result (or vice versa). Finally, we propose a generalization for qudits.
An optical source that produces single-photon pulses on demand has potential applications in linear optics quantum computation, provided that stringent requirements on indistinguishability and collection efficiency of the generated photons are met. We show that these are conflicting requirements for anharmonic emitters that are incoherently pumped via reservoirs. As a model for a coherently pumped single photon source, we propose cavity-assisted spin-flip Raman transitions in a single electron charged quantum dot embedded in a microcavity. We demonstrate that using such a source, arbitrarily high collection efficiency and indistinguishability of the generated photons can be obtained simultaneously with increased cavity coupling. We analyze the role of errors that arise from distinguishability of the single-photon pulses in linear optics quantum gates by relating the gate fidelity to the strength of the two-photon interference dip in photon cross-correlation measurements. We find that performing controlled phase operations with error Ͻ1 % requires nanocavities with Purcell factors F P ജ 40 in the absence of dephasing, without necessitating the strong coupling limit.
We present studies on collision induced dissociation of C 2 -with Ar at an impact energy of 15 keV. The C - fragment ion kinetic-energy release (KER) distribution is measured and is used to compute the KER in the center of mass (c.m.) frame ͑KER c.m. ͒. We employ the reflection method to deduce an effective repulsive potential-energy curve for the molecular anion that is otherwise difficult to evaluate from quantum computational methods. The nuclear wave packet of the molecular ion in the initial ground state is computed by the semiclassical WKB method using the potential-energy curve of the 2 ͚ g + ground electronic state calculated by an ab initio quantum computation method. The ground-state nuclear wave packet is reflected on a parametrized repulsive potential-energy curve where the parameters are determined by fitting the measured KER c.m. with the calculated KER distribution.
It is shown that any quantum operation that perfectly clones the entanglement of all maximally entangled qubit pairs cannot preserve separability. This "entanglement no-cloning" principle naturally suggests that some approximate cloning of entanglement is nevertheless allowed by quantum mechanics. We investigate a separability-preserving optimal cloning machine that duplicates all maximally entangled states of two qubits, resulting in 0.285 bits of entanglement per clone, while a local cloning machine only yields 0.060 bits of entanglement per clone.
The communication protocol of Home and Whitaker [Phys. Rev. A 67, 022306 (2003)] is examined in some detail, and found to work equally well using a separable state. The protocol is in fact completely classical, based on postselection of suitable experimental runs. The quantum-cryptography protocol proposed in the same publication is also examined, and this protocol uses entanglement, a strictly quantum property of the system. An individual eavesdropping attack on each qubit pair would be detected by the security test proposed in the mentioned paper. However, the key is provided by groups of qubits, and there exists a coherent attack, internal to these groups, that will go unnoticed in that security test. A modified test is proposed here that will ensure security, even against such a coherent attack.
We present a procedure inspired by dense coding, which enables a highly efficient transmission of information of a continuous nature. The procedure requires the sender and the recipient to share a maximally entangled state. We deal with the concrete problem of aligning reference frames or trihedra by means of a quantum system. We find the optimal covariant measurement and compute the corresponding average error, which has a remarkably simple close form. The connection of this procedure with that of estimating unitary transformations on qubits is briefly discussed.
The position and momentum space information entropies, of the ground state of the Pöschl-Teller potential, are exactly evaluated and are found to satisfy the bound obtained by Beckner, Bialynicki-Birula, and Mycielski. These entropies for the first excited state, for different strengths of the potential well, are then numerically obtained. Interesting features of the entropy densities, owing their origin to the excited nature of the wave functions, are graphically demonstrated. We then compute the position space entropies of the coherent state of the Pöschl-Teller potential, which is known to show revival and fractional revival. Time evolution of the coherent state reveals many interesting patterns in the space-time flow of information entropy.
We examine the entanglement of general mixed states of a two-qubit Heisenberg XYZ chain in the presence of a magnetic field, and its detection by means of different criteria. Both the exact separability conditions and the weaker conditions implied by the disorder and the von Neumann entropic criteria are analyzed. The ensuing limit temperatures for entanglement in thermal states of different XYZ models are then examined and compared with the limit temperature of the symmetry-breaking solution in a mean-field-type approximation. The latter, though generally lower, can also be higher than the exact limit temperature for entanglement in certain cases, indicating that symmetry breaking does not necessarily entail entanglement. The reentry of entanglement for increasing temperatures is also discussed.
We study the universality of scaling of entanglement in Shor's factoring algorithm and in adiabatic quantum algorithms across a quantum phase transition for both the NP-complete exact cover problem as well as Grover's problem. The analytic result for Shor's algorithm shows a linear scaling of the entropy in terms of the number of qubits, therefore making it hard to generate an efficient classical simulation protocol. A similar result is obtained numerically for the quantum adiabatic evolution exact cover algorithm, which also shows universality of the quantum phase transition near which the system evolves. On the other hand, entanglement in Grover's adiabatic algorithm remains a bounded quantity even at the critical point. The classification of scaling of entanglement appears as a natural grading of the computational complexity of simulating quantum phase transitions.
Decoherence properties of two Josephson charge qubits coupled via the x x type are investigated. Considering the special structure of this new design, the dissipative effects arising from the circuit impedance providing the fluxes for the qubits' superconducting quantum interference device loops coupled to the x qubit variables are considered. The results show that the overall decoherence effects are significantly strong in this qubit design. It is found that the dissipative effects are stronger in the case of coupling to two uncorrelated baths than are found in the case of one common bath.
We present an optical implementation of two programmable quantum measurement devices. The first one serves for unambiguous discrimination of two nonorthogonal states of a qubit. The particular pair of states to be discriminated is specified by the quantum state of a program qubit. The second device can perform von Neumann measurements on a single qubit in any basis located on the equator of the Bloch sphere. Again, the basis is selected by the state of a program qubit. In both cases the data and program qubits are represented by polarization states of photons. The experimental apparatus exploits the fact that two Bell states can be distinguished solely by means of linear optics. The outcome corresponding to the remaining two Bell states represents an inconclusive result.
We analyze the ground-state entanglement in a quantum adiabatic evolution algorithm designed to solve the NP-complete Exact Cover problem. The entropy of entanglement seems to obey linear and universal scaling at the point where the energy gap becomes small, suggesting that the system passes near a quantum phase transition. Such a large scaling of entanglement suggests that the effective connectivity of the system diverges as the number of qubits goes to infinity and that this algorithm cannot be efficiently simulated by classical means. On the other hand, entanglement in Grover's algorithm is bounded by a constant.
The theory of quantum trajectories is applied to simulate the effects of quantum noise sources induced by the environment on quantum information protocols. We study two models that generalize single qubit noise channels like amplitude damping and phase flip to the many-qubit situation. We calculate the fidelity of quantum information transmission through a chaotic channel using the teleportation scheme with different environments. In this example, we analyze the role played by the kind of collective noise suffered by the quantum processor during its operation. We also investigate the stability of a quantum algorithm simulating the quantum dynamics of a paradigmatic model of chaos, the baker's map. Our results demonstrate that, using the quantum trajectories approach, we are able to simulate quantum protocols in the presence of noise and with large system sizes of more than 20 qubits.
A representation of the SO͑3͒ group is mapped into a maximally entangled two qubit state according to the literature. To show the evolution of the entangled state, a model is set up on an maximally entangled electron pair, two electrons of which pass independently through a rotating magnetic field. It is found that the evolution path of the entangled state in the SO͑3͒ sphere breaks an odd or even number of times, corresponding to the double connectedness of the SO͑3͒ group. An odd number of breaks leads to an additional phase to the entangled state, but an even number of breaks does not. A scheme to trace the evolution of the entangled state is proposed by means of entangled photon pairs and Kerr medium, allowing observation of the additional phase.
with formatting errors in Figs. 6, 7, and 9.  
Multiqubit logical gates are proposed as implementations of logical operations on N qubits realized physically by the local manipulation of qubits before and after the one-time evolution of an Ising chain. This construction avoids complicated tuning of the interactions between qubits. The general rules of the action of multiqubit logical gates are derived by decomposing the process into the product of two-qubit logical operations. The formalism is demonstrated by the construction of a special type of multiqubit logical gate that is simulated by a quantum circuit composed of controlled-NOT gates.
We discuss the relationship between entropic uncertainty relations and entanglement. We present two methods for deriving separability criteria in terms of entropic uncertainty relations. In particular, we show how any entropic uncertainty relation on one part of the system results in a separability condition on the composite system. We investigate the resulting criteria using the Tsallis entropy for two and three qubits.
It is shown that coherent superpositions of two oppositely polarized n-photon states can be created by postselecting the transmission of n independently generated photons into a single-mode transmission line. It is thus possible to generate highly nonclassical n-photon polarization states using only the bunching effects associated with the bosonic nature of photons. The effects of mode-matching errors are discussed and the possibility of creating n-photon entanglement by redistributing the photons into n separate modes is considered.
The estimation of unknown qubit elementary gates and the alignment of reference frames are formally the same problem. Using quantum states made out of N qubits, we show that the theoretical precision limit for both problems, which behaves as 1 / N 2 , can be asymptotically attained with a covariant protocol that exploits the quantum correlation of internal degrees of freedom instead of the more fragile entanglement between distant parties. This cuts by half the number of qubits needed to achieve the precision of the dense covariant coding protocol.
We investigate the probabilistic cloning and purification of quantum states. The performance of these probabilistic operations is quantified by the average fidelity between the ideal and actual output states. We provide a simple formula for the maximal achievable average fidelity and we explicitly show how to construct a probabilistic operation that achieves this fidelity. We illustrate our method on several examples such as the phase covariant cloning of qubits, cloning of coherent states, and purification of qubits transmitted via depolarizing channel and amplitude damping channel. Our examples reveal that the probabilistic cloner may yield higher fidelity than the best deterministic cloner even when the states that should be cloned are linearly dependent and are drawn from a continuous set.
We propose two potentially practical schemes to carry out two-qubit quantum gates on endohedral fullerenes N@C 60 or P@C 60 . The qubits are stored in electronic spin degrees of freedom of the doped atom N or P. By means of the magnetic dipolar coupling between two neighboring fullerenes, the two-qubit controlled-NOT gate and the two-qubit conditional phase gate are performed by selective microwave pulses assisted by the refocusing technique. We will discuss the necessary additional steps for the universality of our proposal. We will also show that our proposal is useful for both quantum gating and the readout of quantum information from the spin-based qubit state.
We study dynamical decoupling of a qubit from non-Gaussian quantum noise due to discrete sources, as bistable fluctuators and 1 / f noise. We obtain analytic and numerical results for generic operating points. For very large pulse frequency, where dynamic decoupling compensates decoherence, we found universal behavior. At intermediate frequencies noise can be compensated or enhanced, depending on the nature of the fluctuators and on the operating point. Our technique can be applied to a larger class of non-Gaussian environments.
By definition, the Kraus representation of a harmonic oscillator suffering from the environment effect, modeled as the amplitude damping or the phase damping, is directly given by a simple operator algebra solution. As examples and applications, we first give a Kraus representation of a single qubit whose computational basis states are defined as bosonic vacuum and single particle number states. We further discuss the environment effect on qubits whose computational basis states are defined as the bosonic odd and even coherent states. The environment effects on entangled qubits defined by two different kinds of computational basis are compared with the use of fidelity.
We present a numerical study of the robustness of a specific class of non-Abelian holonomic quantum gates. We take into account the parametric noise due to stochastic fluctuations of the control fields which drive the time-dependent Hamiltonian along an adiabatic loop. The performance estimator used is the state fidelity between noiseless and noisy holonomic gates. We carry over our analysis with different correlation times and we find out that noisy holonomic gates seem to be close to the noiseless ones for "short" and "long" noise correlation times. This result can be interpreted as a consequence of the geometric nature of the holonomic operator. Our simulations have been performed by using parameters relevant to the excitonic proposal for the implementation of holonomic quantum computation [P.
Motivated by the mathematical definition of entanglement we undertake a rigorous analysis of the separability and nondistillability properties in the neighborhood of those three-qubit mixed states which are entangled and completely biseparable. Our results are not only restricted to this class of quantum states, since they rest upon very general properties of mixed states and unextendible product bases for any possible number of parties. Robustness against noise of the relevant properties of these states implies the significance of their possible experimental realization, therefore being of physical-and not exclusively mathematical-interest.
In the presence of dissipation, quantal states may acquire complex-valued phase effects. We suggest a notion of dissipative interferometry that accommodates this complex-valued structure and that may serve as a tool for analyzing the effect of certain kinds of external influences on quantal interference. The concept of mixed-state phase and concomitant gauge invariance is extended to dissipative internal motion. The resulting complexvalued mixed-state interference effects lead to well-known results in the unitary limit and in the case of dissipative motion of pure quantal states. Dissipative interferometry is applied to fault-tolerant geometric quantum computation.
We present, and analyze thoroughly, a highly symmetric and efficient scheme for the determination of a single-qubit state, such as the polarization properties of photons emitted by a single-photon source. In our scheme there are only four measured probabilities, just enough for the determination of the three parameters that specify the qubit state, whereas the standard procedure would measure six probabilities.
We study many-qubit generalizations of quantum noise channels that can be written as an incoherent sum of translations in phase space, for which the chord representation results specially useful. Physical descriptions in terms of the spectral properties of the superoperator and the action in phase space are provided. A very natural description of decoherence leading to a preferred basis is achieved with diffusion along a phase space line. The numerical advantages of using the chord representation are illustrated in the case of coarse-graining noise.
A single three-level atom driven by a longitudinal mode of a high-Q cavity is used to implement two-qubit quantum phase gates for the intracavity field. The two qubits are associated with the zero-and one-photon Fock states of each of the two opposite circular polarization states of the field. The three-level atom mediates the conditional phase gate provided the two polarization states and the atom interact in a V-type configuration and the two-photon resonance condition is satisfied. Microwave and optical implementations are discussed with gate fidelities being evaluated against several decoherence mechanisms such as atomic velocity fluctuations or the presence of a weak magnetic field. The use of coherent states for both polarization states is investigated to assess the entanglement capability of the proposed quantum gates.
Non-Abelian holonomy in dynamical systems may arise in adiabatic transport of energetically degenerate sets of states. We examine such a holonomy structure for mixtures of energetically degenerate quantal states. We demonstrate that this structure has a natural interpretation in terms of the standard Wilczek-Zee holonomy associated with a certain class of Hamiltonians that couple the system to an ancilla. The mixed-state holonomy is analyzed for holonomic quantum computation using ion traps.
It is shown that the entanglement-structure of 3-and 4-qubit states can be characterized by optimized operators of the Mermin-Klyshko type. It is possible to discriminate between pure 2-qubit entanglements and higher entanglements. A comparison with a global entanglement measure is made.
A geometrical description of three-qubit entanglement is given. A part of the transformations corresponding to stochastic local operations and classical communication on the qubits is regarded as a gauge degree of freedom. Entangled states can be represented by the points of the Klein quadric Q, a space known from twistor theory. It is shown that three-qubit invariants are vanishing on special subspaces of Q with interesting geometric properties. An invariant characterizing the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger class is proposed. A geometric interpretation of the canonical decomposition and the inequality for distributed entanglement is also given.
An experimental realization of the entanglement-assisted "Guess My Number" protocol for the reduction of communication complexity, introduced by Steane and van Dam, would require producing and detecting threequbit GHZ states with an efficiency Ͼ 0.70, which would require single photon detectors of efficiency Ͼ 0.89. We propose a modification of the protocol which can be translated into a real experiment using present-day technology. In the proposed experiment, the quantum reduction of the multiparty communication complexity would require an efficiency Ͼ 0.05, achievable with detectors of Ͼ 0.47, for four parties, and Ͼ 0.17 ͑ Ͼ 0.55͒ for three parties.
We construct an explicit Wigner function for the N-mode squeezed state. Based on a previous observation that the Wigner function describes correlations in the joint measurement of the phase-space displaced parity operator, we investigate the nonlocality of the multipartite entangled state by the violation of the Żukowski-Brukner N-qubit Bell inequality. We find that quantum predictions for such a squeezed state violate these inequalities by an amount that grows with the number N.
Ideal quantum algorithms usually assume that quantum computing is performed continuously by a sequence of unitary transformations. However, there always exist idle finite time intervals between consecutive operations in a realistic quantum computing process. During these delays, coherent errors will accumulate from the dynamical phases of the superposed wave functions. Here we explore the sensitivity of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm to such errors. Our results clearly show a severe sensitivity of Shor's factorization algorithm to the presence of delay times between successive unitary transformations. Specifically, in the presence of these coherent errors, the probability of obtaining the correct answer decreases exponentially with the number of qubits of the work register. A particularly simple phase-matching approach is proposed in this paper to avoid or suppress these coherent errors when using Shor's algorithm to factorize integers. The robustness of this phase-matching condition is evaluated analytically and numerically for the factorization of several integers: 4, 15, 21, and 33.
We investigate the possibility of implementing a given projection measurement using linear optics and arbitrarily fast feedforward based on the continuous detection of photons. In particular, we systematically derive the so-called Dolinar scheme that achieves the minimum-error discrimination of binary coherent states. Moreover, we show that the Dolinar-type approach can also be applied to projection measurements in the regime of photonic-qubit signals. Our results demonstrate that for implementing a projection measurement with linear optics, in principle, unit success probability may be approached even without the use of expensive entangled auxiliary states, as they are needed in all known ͑near-͒deterministic linear-optics proposals.
The maximally entangled mixed states of Munro et al. ͓Phys. Rev. A 64, 030302 ͑2001͔͒ are shown to exhibit interesting features vis á vis conditional entropic measures. The same happens with the Ishizaka and Hiroshima states ͓Phys. Rev. A 62, 022310 ͑2000͔͒, whose entanglement degree cannot be increased by acting on them with logic gates. Special types of entangled states that do not violate classical entropic inequalities are seen to exist in the space of two qubits. Special meaning can be assigned to the Munro et al. special participation ratio of 1.8.
We investigate entanglement properties of multipartite states under the influence of decoherence. We show that the lifetime of ͑distillable͒ entanglement for Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒ -type superposition states decreases with the size of the system, while for a class of other states-namely, all graph states with constant degree-the lifetime is independent of the system size. We show that these results are largely independent of the specific decoherence model and are in particular valid for all models which deal with individual couplings of particles to independent environments, described by some quantum optical master equation of Lindblad form. For GHZ states, we derive analytic expressions for the lifetime of distillable entanglement and determine when the state becomes fully separable. For all graph states, we derive lower and upper bounds on the lifetime of entanglement. The lower bound is based on a specific distillation protocol, while upper bounds are obtained by showing that states resulting from decoherence in general become nondistillable or even separable after a finite time. This is done using different methods, namely, ͑i͒ the map describing the decoherence process ͑e.g., the action of a thermal bath on the system͒ becomes entanglement breaking, ͑ii͒ the resulting state becomes separable, and ͑iii͒ the partial transposition with respect to certain partitions becomes positive. To this aim, we establish a method to calculate the spectrum of the partial transposition for all mixed states which are diagonal in a graph-state basis. We also consider entanglement between different groups of particles and determine the corresponding lifetimes as well as the change of the kind of entanglement with time. This enables us to investigate the behavior of entanglement under rescaling and in the limit of large number of particles N → ϱ. Finally we investigate the lifetime of encoded quantum superposition states and show that one can define an effective time in the encoded system which can be orders of magnitude smaller than the physical time. This provides an alternative view on quantum error correction and examples of states whose lifetime of entanglement ͑between groups of particles͒ in fact increases with the size of the system.
We demonstrate an efficient fiber-coupled source of nondegenerate polarization-entangled photons at 795 and 1609 nm using bidirectionally pumped parametric down-conversion in bulk periodically poled lithium niobate. The single-mode source has an inferred bandwidth of 50 GHz and a spectral brightness of 300 pairs/ ͑s GHz mW͒ of pump power that is suitable for narrowband applications such as entanglement transfer from photonic to atomic qubits.
The concurrence of two alternate qubits in a four-qubit Heisenberg XX chain is investigated when a uniform magnetic field B is included. It is found that there is no thermal entanglement between alternate qubits if B is close to zero. A magnetic field can induce entanglement in a certain range both for the antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic cases. Near zero temperature, the entanglement undergoes two sudden changes with increasing value of the magnetic field B. This is due to the changes in the ground state. This novel property may be used as a quantum entanglement switch. The anisotropy in the system can also induce the entanglement between two alternate qubits.
In Theorem 2 and Remark 8 of the above manuscript, the minimum time required for producing a swap gate between spin 1 and 3 is ഛ3 ͱ 3/2J. This correction does not affect the main results of the paper given in Theorems 1 and 2.
We consider the ground state of an XX chain that is constrained to carry a current of energy. The von Neumann entropy of a block of L neighboring spins, describing entanglement of the block with the rest of the chain, is computed. Recent calculations have revealed that the entropy in the XX model diverges logarithmically with the size of the subsystem. We show that the presence of the energy current increases the prefactor of the logarithmic growth. This result indicates that the emergence of the energy current gives rise to an increase of entanglement.
We investigate cluster states of qubits with respect to their nonlocal properties. We demonstrate that a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒ argument holds for any cluster state: more precisely, it holds for any partial, thence mixed, state of a small number of connected qubits ͑five, in the case of one-dimensional lattices͒. In addition, we derive a Bell inequality that is maximally violated by the four-qubit cluster state and is not violated by the four-qubit GHZ state.
A collective system of atoms in a high-quality cavity can be described by a nonlinear interaction which arises due to the Lamb shift of the energy levels due to the cavity vacuum ͓Agarwal et al., Phys. Rev. A 56, 2249 ͑1997͔͒. We show how this collective interaction can be used to perform quantum logic. In particular we produce schemes to realize controlled-NOT gates not only for two-qubit but also for three-qubit systems. We also discuss realizations of Toffoli gates. Our effective Hamiltonian is also realized in other systems such as trapped ions or magnetic molecules.
We obtain a collection of necessary ͑sufficient͒ conditions for a bipartite system of qubits to be separable ͑entangled͒, which are based on the Landau-Pollak formulation of the uncertainty principle. These conditions are tested and compared with previously stated criteria by applying them to states whose separability limits are already known. Our results are also extended to multipartite and higher-dimensional systems.
Uniformly controlled one-qubit gates are quantum gates which can be represented as direct sums of twodimensional unitary operators acting on a single qubit. We present a quantum gate array which implements any n-qubit gate of this type using at most 2 n-1 -1 controlled-NOT gates, 2 n-1 one-qubit gates, and a single diagonal n-qubit gate. To illustrate the versatility of these gates we then apply them to the decomposition of a general n-qubit gate and a state preparation procedure. Moreover, we study their implementation using only nearestneighbor gates. We give upper bounds for the one-qubit and controlled-NOT gate counts for all the aforementioned applications. In all four cases, the proposed circuit topologies either improve on or achieve the previously reported upper bounds for the gate counts. Thus, they provide the most efficient method for general gate decompositions currently known.
We present an iterative algorithm that finds the optimal measurement for extracting the accessible information in any quantum communication scenario. The maximization is achieved by a steepest-ascent approach toward the extremal point, following the gradient uphill in sufficiently small steps. We apply it to a simple ad hoc example, as well as to a problem with a bearing on the security of a tomographic protocol for quantum key distribution.
We demonstrate a quantum error correction scheme that protects against accidental measurement, using a parity encoding where the logical state of a single qubit is encoded into two physical qubits using a nondeterministic photonic controlled-NOT gate. For the single qubit input states ͉0͘, ͉1͘, ͉0͘ ± ͉1͘, and ͉0͘ ± i͉1͘ our encoder produces the appropriate two-qubit encoded state with an average fidelity of 0.88± 0.03 and the single qubit decoded states have an average fidelity of 0.93± 0.05 with the original state. We are able to decode the two-qubit state ͑up to a bit flip͒ by performing a measurement on one of the qubits in the logical basis; we find that the 64 one-qubit decoded states arising from 16 real and imaginary single-qubit superposition inputs have an average fidelity of 0.96± 0.03.
In this paper we develop a unified framework to study the coherent control of trapped ions subject to state-dependent forces. Taking different limits in our theory, we can reproduce previous designs of quantum gates and propose a different design of fast gates based on continuous laser beams. We demonstrate how to simulate Ising Hamiltonians in a many ions setup, and how to create highly entangled states and induce squeezing. Finally, in a detailed analysis we identify the physical limits of this technique and study the dependence of errors on the temperature.
In optically controlled quantum computers it may be favorable to address different qubits using light with different frequencies, since the optical diffraction does not then limit the distance between qubits. Using qubits that are close to each other enables qubit-qubit interactions and gate operations that are strong and fast in comparison to qubit-environment interactions and decoherence rates. However, as qubits are addressed in frequency space, great care has to be taken when designing the laser pulses, so that they perform the desired operation on one qubit, without affecting other qubits. Complex hyperbolic secant pulses have theoretically been shown to be excellent for such frequency-addressed quantum computing ͓I. Roos and K. Molmer, Phys. Rev. A 69, 022321 ͑2004͔͒-e.g., for use in quantum computers based on optical interactions in rare-earthmetal-ion-doped crystals. The optical transition lines of the rare-earth-metal-ions are inhomogeneously broadened and therefore the frequency of the excitation pulses can be used to selectively address qubit ions that are spatially separated by a distance much less than a wavelength. Here, frequency-selective transfer of qubit ions between qubit states using complex hyperbolic secant pulses is experimentally demonstrated. Transfer efficiencies better than 90% were obtained. Using the complex hyperbolic secant pulses it was also possible to create two groups of ions, absorbing at specific frequencies, where 85% of the ions at one of the frequencies was shifted out of resonance with the field when ions in the other frequency group were excited. This procedure of selecting interacting ions, called qubit distillation, was carried out in preparation for two-qubit gate operations in the rare-earth-metal-ion-doped crystals. The techniques for frequency-selective state-to-state transfer developed here may be also useful also for other quantum optics and quantum information experiments in these long-coherence-time solid-state systems.
Measuring the amplitude and absolute ͑i.e., temporal and initial͒ phase of a monochromatic microwave field at a specific point of space and time has many potential applications, including precise qubit rotations and wavelength quantum teleportation. Here we show how such a measurement can indeed be made using resonant atomic probes via detection of incoherent fluorescence induced by a laser beam. This measurement is possible due to self-interference effects between the positive-and negative-frequency components of the field. In effect, the small cluster of atoms here act as a highly localized pickup coil, and the fluorescence channel acts as a transmission line.
We derive the optimal trade-off between the estimation fidelity and the fidelity of the state after the estimation for a single copy of an unknown pure state of a d-level system belonging to a specific subset of the set of all pure states. The set of states to be considered here is formed by all pure states of a d-level system produced by d-independent phase shifts of some reference state. We also propose a measurement scheme realizing such an optimal partial estimation of multiple phases in which the trade-off between the fidelities can be controlled by the state of the ancilla.
The three-spin chain with a Heisenberg XY interaction is simulated in a three-qubit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computer. The evolution caused by the XY interaction is decomposed into a series of single-spin rotations and the J-coupling evolutions between the neighboring spins. The perfect state transfer algorithm proposed by Christandl et al.͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 187902 ͑2004͔͒ is realized in the XY chain.
We examine the entanglement of thermal states of n spins interacting through different types of XY couplings in the presence of a uniform magnetic field, by evaluating the negativities of all possible bipartite partitions of the whole system and of subsystems. We consider both the case where every qubit interacts with all others and where just nearest neighbors interact in a one-dimensional chain. Limit temperatures for nonzero negativities are also evaluated and compared with the mean field critical temperature. It is shown that limit temperatures of global negativities are strictly independent of the magnetic field in all XXZ models, in spite of the quantum transitions that these models may exhibit at zero temperature, while in anisotropic models they always increase for sufficiently large fields. Results also show that these temperatures are higher than those limiting pairwise entanglement.
We present a method to construct entanglement measures for pure states of multipartite qubit systems. The key element of our approach is an antilinear operator that we call "comb". For qubits ͑or spin 1 / 2͒ the combs are automatically invariant under SL͑2,C͒. This implies that the filters obtained from the combs are entanglement monotones by construction. We give alternative formulas for the concurrence and the three-tangle as expectation values of certain antilinear operators. As an application we discuss inequivalent types of genuine four-qubit entanglement.
An alternative design for a planar Penning ion trap is presented. Although the analytical trapping potential is not exactly quadratic, approximate values for the characteristic frequencies around the equilibrium point can be found. An array of traps can be formed simply using long straight wires, and the open geometry of this design means that the structure can be miniaturized using well-known techniques. Consequently, these traps should be considered as excellent candidates for applications in quantum computation.
A recent paper ͓M. Seevinck and J
Communicating a physical quantity cannot be done using information only-i.e., using abstract cbits and/or qubits. Rather one needs appropriate physical realizations of cbits and/or qubits. We illustrate this by considering the problem of communicating chirality. We discuss in detail the physical resources this necessitates and introduce the natural concept of quantum gloves-i.e., rotationally invariant quantum states that encode as much as possible the concept of chirality and nothing more.
We propose experimental schemes to implement ancilla-free 1 → 3 optimal phase covariant quantum cloning machines for x-y and x-z equatorial qubits by interfering a polarized photon, which we wish to clone, with different light resources at a six-port symmetric beam splitter. The scheme requires linear optical elements and three-photon coincidence detection, and is feasible with current experimental technology.
We generalize the adiabatic approximation to the case of open quantum systems, in the joint limit of slow change and weak open system disturbances. We show that the approximation is "physically reasonable" as under wide conditions it leads to a completely positive evolution, if the original master equation can be written on a time-dependent Lindblad form. We demonstrate the approximation for a non-Abelian holonomic implementation of the Hadamard gate, disturbed by a decoherence process. We compare the resulting approximate evolution with numerical simulations of the exact equation.
We investigate how stabilizer theory can be used for constructing sufficient conditions for entanglement. First, we show how entanglement witnesses can be derived for a given state, provided some stabilizing operators of the state are known. These witnesses require only a small effort for an experimental implementation and are robust against noise. Second, we demonstrate that also nonlinear criteria based on uncertainty relations can be derived from stabilizing operators. These criteria can sometimes improve the witnesses by adding nonlinear correction terms. All our criteria detect states close to Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, cluster and graph states. We show that similar ideas can be used to derive entanglement conditions for states which do not fit the stabilizer formalism, such as the three-qubit W state. We also discuss connections between the witnesses and some Bell inequalities.
We have calculated ͑1+1+1Ј͒-photon dissociation cross section of the NaH molecule from vЉ = 0 level of the ground X 1 ⌺ + state to the repulsive B 1 ⌸ state via the bound A 1 ⌺ + state by using three delayed ultrashort pulses. Two delayed 4 femtosecond pulses have been used for the first step transition to design interfering wave packets on the intermediate A 1 ⌺ + state and the third delayed ultrashort pulse ͑either ␦-function or 4 femtosecond͒ excites these wave packets to the dissociating state. We have shown that control over dissociation dynamics can be achieved by controlling delay between three pulses, the pulse durations, and the carrier frequencies. We have considered two values of delay between the first two 4 femtosecond pulses for which it is possible to inhibit and enhance the deexcitation channel to the ground state and hence for these two delays the maximum of the cross section in the dissociation spectrum can be enhanced or diminished respectively for the ␦-function transition to the dissociating state by the third ultrashort pulse. The dissociation spectrum also depends on the delay of the third pulse. The dependence of the dissociation cross section on the delays of pulses and on the carrier frequency of the third pulse has been demonstrated for two step dissociating transition by three delayed 4 femtosecond pulses of Gaussian shape. It has been suggested that the oscillation of dissociation cross section with time delay of the third pulse can be realized as time dependent quantum gates and the nature of quantum gates can be controlled by choosing pulses of different shape, duration, and photon energy ͑or carrier frequency͒ as well as delay between the pulses. This aspect of realization and precise control of time dependent quantum gate in light molecules by using three ultrashort pulses ͑4 femtosecond͒ has not been explored before.
We discuss the effective interactions between two localized perturbations in one-dimensional quantum liquids. For noninteracting fermions, the interactions exhibit Friedel oscillations, giving rise to a Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida-type interaction familiar from impurity spins in metals. In the interacting case, at low energies, a Luttinger-liquid description applies. In the case of repulsive fermions, the Friedel oscillations of the interacting system are replaced, at long distances, by a universal Casimir-type interaction which depends only on the sound velocity and decays inversely with the separation. The Casimir-type interaction between localized perturbations embedded in a fermionic environment gives rise to a long-range coupling between quantum dots in ultracold Fermi gases, opening an alternative to couple qubits with neutral atoms. We also briefly discuss the case of bosonic quantum liquids in which the interaction between weak impurities turns out to be short ranged, decaying exponentially on the scale of the healing length.
We construct the Hamiltonian description of the Chern-Simons theory with Z n gauge group on a triangular lattice. We show that the Z 2 model can be mapped onto free Majorana fermions and compute the excitation spectrum. In the bulk the spectrum turns out to be gapless but acquires a gap if a magnetic term is added to the Hamiltonian. On a lattice edge one gets additional nongauge invariant ͑matter͒ gapless degrees of freedom whose number grows linearly with the edge length. Therefore, a small hole in the lattice plays the role of a charged particle characterized by a nontrivial projective representation of the gauge group, while a long edge provides a decoherence mechanism for the fluxes. We discuss briefly the implications for the implementations of protected qubits.
We present a model, motivated by the criterion of reality put forward by Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen and supplemented by classical communication, which correctly reproduces the quantum-mechanical predictions for measurements of all products of Pauli operators on an n-qubit GHZ state ͑or "cat state"͒. The n -2 bits employed by our model are shown to be optimal for the allowed set of measurements, demonstrating that the required communication overhead scales linearly with n. We formulate a connection between the generation of the local values utilized by our model and the stabilizer formalism, which leads us to conjecture that a generalization of this method will shed light on the content of the Gottesman-Knill theorem.
In order to place an upper bound on the tolerable amount of photon loss at the detectors, we calculate the error threshold for the linear optics quantum computing proposal by Knill, Laflamme, and Milburn ͓Nature ͑London͒ 409, 46 ͑2001͔͒ under an error model where photon detectors have efficiency Ͻ100% but all other components-such as single photon sources, beam splitters, and phase shifters-are perfect and introduce no errors. We make use of the fact that the error model induced by the lossy hardware is that of an erasure channel, i.e., the error locations are always known. Using a method based on a Markov chain description of the error correction procedure, our calculations show that, with the 7 qubit Calderbank-Shor-Steane quantum code, the gate error threshold for fault tolerant quantum computation is bounded below by a value between 1.78% and 11.5% depending on the construction of the entangling gates.
We present a way to realize an n-qubit controlled phase gate with superconducting quantum-interference devices ͑SQUIDs͒ by coupling them to a superconducting resonator. In this proposal, the two logical states of a qubit are represented by the two lowest levels of a SQUID. An intermediate level of each SQUID is utilized to facilitate coherent control and manipulation of quantum states of the qubits. It is interesting to note that an n-qubit controlled phase gate can be achieved with n SQUIDs by successively applying a / 2 Jaynes-Cummings pulse to each of the n -1 control SQUIDs before and after a Jaynes-Cummings pulse on the target SQUID.
The thermal entanglement in a two-qubit Heisenberg XXZ spin chain is investigated under an inhomogeneous magnetic field b. We show that the ground-state entanglement is independent of the interaction of z-component J z . The thermal entanglement at the fixed temperature can be enhanced when J z increases. We strictly show that for any temperature T and J z , the entanglement is symmetric with respect to zero inhomogeneous magnetic field, and the critical inhomogeneous magnetic field b c is independent of J z . The critical magnetic field B c increases with the increasing ͉b͉ but the maximum entanglement value that the system can arrive at becomes smaller.
We study a quantum state transfer between two qubits interacting with the ends of a quantum wire consisting of linearly arranged spins coupled by an excitation conserving, time-independent Hamiltonian. We show that, if we control the coupling between the source and the destination qubits and the ends of the wire, the evolution of the system can lead to an almost perfect transfer even in the case in which all nearest-neighbour couplings between the internal spins of the wire are equal.
We propose a scheme for the measurement of a two-mode entangled field-state in a high-Q cavity. The scheme utilizes the momentum distribution spectrum in the Raman-Nath regime of a three-level atom in V configuration. Due to the two modes of the electromagnetic field the atom may have x interactions with mode A, and y interactions with mode B, causing a complex momentum distribution. The momentum distribution of the atom after interaction with the quantized cavity fields contains the information of the field photon statistics. We reconstruct the joint photon statistics of the entangled field with the help of recorded momentum spectrum. We also propose to reconstruct the Wigner function of a two-mode entangled field state by injecting two coherent states resonant to each mode into the cavity and then measuring the joint photon statistics of the displaced field.
We discuss the use of Rydberg blockade techniques for entanglement of single-atom qubits with collective N-atom qubits. We show how the entanglement can be used to achieve fast readout and transmission of the state of single-atom qubits without the use of optical cavities.
We characterize violation of Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt ͑CHSH͒ inequalities for mixed two-qubit states by their mixedness and entanglement. The class of states that have maximum degree of CHSH violation for a given linear entropy is also constructed.
An algorithm is proposed which transfers the quantum information of a wave function ͑analog signal͒ into a register of qubits ͑digital signal͒ such that n qubits describe the amplitudes and phases of 2 n points of a sufficiently smooth wave function. We assume that the continuous degree of freedom couples to one or more qubits of a quantum register via a Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian and that we have universal quantum computation capabilities on the register as well as the possibility to perform bang-bang control on the qubits. The transfer of information is mainly based on the application of the quantum phase estimation algorithm in both directions. Here, the running time increases exponentially with the number of qubits. We pose it as an open question which interactions would allow polynomial running time. One example would be interactions which enable squeezing operations.
In this paper, we demonstrate how optimal control methods can be used to speed up the implementation of modules of quantum algorithms or quantum simulations in networks of coupled qubits. The gain is most prominent in realistic cases, where the qubits are not all mutually coupled. Thus the shortest times obtained depend on the coupling topology as well as on the characteristic ratio of the time scales for local controls vs nonlocal ͑i.e., coupling͒ evolutions in the specific experimental setting. Relating these minimal times to the number of qubits gives the tightest known upper bounds to the actual time complexity of the quantum modules. As will be shown, time complexity is a more realistic measure of the experimental cost than the usual gate complexity. In the limit of fast local controls ͑as, e.g., in NMR͒, time-optimized realizations are shown for the quantum Fourier transform ͑QFT͒ and the multiply controlled NOT gate ͑C n-1 NOT͒ in various coupling topologies of n qubits. The speed-ups are substantial: in a chain of six qubits the quantum Fourier transform so far obtained by optimal control is more than eight times faster than the standard decomposition into controlled phase, Hadamard and SWAP gates, while the C n-1 NOT gate for a completely coupled network of six qubits is nearly seven times faster.
Contrary to the usual assumption that the experimental preparation of pure entangled states can be described by mixed states due to white noise, a more realistic description for polarization-entangled states produced by parametric down-conversion is that they are mixed states due to decoherence in a preferred polarization basis. This distinction between white and colored noise is crucial when we look for maximal violations of Bell's inequalities for two-qubit and two-qutrit entangled states. We find that violations of Bell's inequalities with realistic noise for polarization-entangled photons are extremely robust for colored noise, whereas this is not the case for white noise. In addition, we study the difference between white and colored noise for maximal violations of Bell's inequalities for three-and four-qubit entangled states.
The possibility of cloning a d-dimensional quantum system without an ancilla is explored, extending on the economical phase-covariant cloning machine for qubits found in Phys. Rev. A 60, 2764 ͑1999͒. We prove the impossibility of constructing an economical version of the optimal universal 1 → 2 cloning machine in any dimension. We also show, using an ansatz on the generic form of cloning machines, that the d-dimensional 1 → 2 phase-covariant cloner, which optimally clones all balanced superpositions with arbitrary phases, can be realized economically only in dimension d = 2. The used ansatz is supported by numerical evidence up to d = 7. An economical phase-covariant cloner can nevertheless be constructed for d Ͼ 2, albeit with a slightly lower fidelity than that of the optimal cloner requiring an ancilla. Finally, using again an ansatz on cloning machines, we show that an economical version of the 1 → 2 Fourier-covariant cloner, which optimally clones the computational basis and its Fourier transform, is also possible only in dimension d =2.
We consider completely positive maps that describe noisy, multiparticle unitary operations. We show that by random single-particle operations the completely positive maps can be depolarized to a standard form with a reduced number of parameters describing the noise process in such a way that the noiseless ͑unitary͒ part of the evolution is not altered. A further reduction of the parameters, in many cases even to a single one ͑i.e., global white noise͒, is possible by tailoring the decoherence process and increasing the amount of noise. We generalize these results to the dynamical case where the noisy evolution is described by a master equation of Lindblad form, and the noiseless evolution is specified by an interaction Hamiltonian. The resulting standard forms may be used to compute lower bounds on channel capacities, to simplify quantum process tomography or to derive error thresholds for entanglement purification and quantum computation.
We propose a scheme for optimal Gaussian purification of coherent states from several imperfect copies. The proposal is experimentally demonstrated for the case of two copies of a coherent state sent through independent noisy channels. Our purification protocol relies on only linear optics and an ancilla vacuum state, rendering this approach an interesting alternative to the more complex protocols of entanglement distillation and quantum error correction.
We show that the generalized Bell-type inequality, explicitly involving rotational symmetry of physical laws, is very efficient in distinguishing between true N-particle quantum correlations and correlations involving less particles. This applies to various types of generalized partial separabilities. We also give a rigorous proof that the Bell inequalities are maximally violated by the GHZ states, and find a very handy description of the N-qubit correlation function.
In this paper, we consider the generation of a three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger-like thermal state by applying the entanglement swapping scheme of Zukowski et al. ͓Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 755, 91 ͑1995͔͒ to three pairs of two-qubit Heisenberg XY chains. The quality of the resulting three-qubit entanglement is studied by analyzing the teleportation fidelity, when it is used as a resource in the teleportation protocol of Karlsson et al. ͓Phys. Rev. A 58, 4394 ͑1998͔͒. We show that even though thermal noise in the original two-qubit states is amplified by the entanglement swapping process, we are still able to achieve nonclassical fidelities for the anisotropic Heisenberg XY chains at finitely higher and higher temperatures by adjusting the strengths of an external magnetic field. This has a positive implication on the solid-state realization of a quantum computer.
For a system of N qubits, living in a Hilbert space of dimension d =2 N , it is known that there exists d +1 mutually unbiased bases. Different construction algorithms exist, and it is remarkable that different methods lead to sets of bases with different properties as far as separability is concerned. Here we derive four sets of nine bases for three qubits, and show how they are unitarily related. We also briefly discuss the four-qubit case, give the entanglement structure of 16 sets of bases, and show some of them and their interrelations, as examples. The extension of the method to the general case of N qubits is outlined.
For systems described by finite matrices, an affine form is developed for the maps that describe evolution of density matrices for a quantum system that interacts with another. This is established directly from the Heisenberg picture. It separates elements that depend only on the dynamics from those that depend on the state of the two systems. While the equivalent linear map is generally not completely positive, the homogeneous part of the affine maps is, and is shown to be composed of multiplication operations that come simply from the Hamiltonian for the larger system. The inhomogeneous part is shown to be zero if and only if the map does not increase the trace of the square of any density matrix. Properties are worked out in detail for two-qubit examples.
We study the exact evolution of two noninteracting qubits, initially in a Bell state, in the presence of an environment, modeled by a kicked Ising spin chain. Dynamics of this model range from integrable to chaotic and we can handle numerics for a large number of qubits. We find that the entanglement ͑as measured by concurrence͒ of the two qubits has a close relation to the purity of the pair, and closely follows an analytic relation derived for Werner states. As a collateral result we find that an integrable environment causes quadratic decay of concurrence as well as of purity, while a chaotic environment causes linear decay. Both quantities display recurrences in an integrable environment.
An experimental setup for testing quantum nonlocality of N qubits is proposed. This method is a generalization of the optical setup proposed by Banaszek and Wódkiewicz ͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 2009 ͑1999͔͒. The quantum nonlocality of N qubits can be obtained through its violation of N-qubit Bell inequalities. The correlation function measured in the experiment is described by the Wigner function. The effect of inefficient detector is also considered.
We comment on the recent suggestion to use a family of local uncertainty relations as a standard way of quantifying entanglement in two-qubit systems. Some statements made on the applicability of the proposed "measures" are overly optimistic. We exemplify how these specific measures fall short, and present a minor modification of the general theory which uses the same experimentally gathered information, but in a slightly different, better way.
We consider entanglement detection for quantum-key-distribution systems that use two signal states and continuous-variable measurements. This problem can be formulated as a separability problem in a qubit-mode system. To verify entanglement, we introduce an object that combines the covariance matrix of the mode with the density matrix of the qubit. We derive necessary separability criteria for this scenario. These criteria can be readily evaluated using semidefinite programming and we apply them to the specific quantum key distribution protocol.
We introduce a family of linear maps which are positive but not completely positive. We exhibit examples of nondecomposable maps and 2 N 2 N , N ജ 2, bound entangled states-e.g., nondistillable bipartite states of N + N qubits. Such states, as the standard Bell diagonal states, are diagonal in a maximally entangled basis and, apart remaining positive under partial transposition, are not detected by the realignment criterion.
Photonic-band-gap cavities are prime solid-state systems to investigate light-matter interactions in the strong coupling regime. However, as the cavity is defined by the geometry of the periodic dielectric pattern, cavity control in a monolithic structure can be problematic. Thus, either the state coherence is limited by the read-out channel, or in a high-Q cavity, it is nearly decoupled from the external world, making measurement of the state extremely challenging. We present here a method for ameliorating these difficulties by using a coupled cavity arrangement, where one cavity acts as a switch for the other cavity, tuned by control of the atomic transition.
A simple scheme is proposed to generate an n-qubit W state in cavity QED. Conditioned on no photon leakage from the cavity, the n-qubit W state can be generated by resonant interaction between atoms and the cavity if the cavity is initially prepared in the single-photon state and all the atoms are in the ground states. We check the time evolution of the system involving decay, and show that, since the required interaction time is very short, with present cavity QED techniques, the success probability of our scheme is almost unity.
͑2004͔͒ have presented a scheme for implementing quantum teleportation of atomic states in cavity QED. In this Comment
The minimum gap g min between 2 ͑s͒ and 0 ͑s͒ is exponentially small and not inverse polynomial, as claimed in theorem 3. Thanks to Andrew Childs for pointing this out. It therefore turns out that the time delay required is exponential in the input size.
This paper deals with estimating the volume of the set of separable mixed quantum states when the dimension of the state space grows to infinity. This has been studied recently for qubits; here we consider larger particles and conclude that, in all cases, the proportion of the states that are separable is superexponentially small in the dimension of the set. We also show that the partial transpose criterion becomes imprecise when the dimension increases, and that the lower bound 6 -N/2 on the ͑Hilbert-Schmidt͒ inradius of the set of separable states on N qubits obtained recently by Gurvits and Barnum is essentially optimal. We employ standard tools of classical convexity, high-dimensional probability, and geometry of Banach spaces. One relatively nonstandard point is a formal introduction of the concept of projective tensor products of convex bodies, and an initial study of this concept.
Geometric phases have been used in NMR to implement controlled phase shift gates for quantuminformation processing, only in weakly coupled systems in which the individual spins can be identified as qubits. In this work, we implement controlled phase shift gates in strongly coupled systems by using nonadiabatic geometric phases, obtained by evolving the magnetization of fictitious spin-1 / 2 subspaces, over a closed loop on the Bloch sphere. The dynamical phase accumulated during the evolution of the subspaces is refocused by a spin echo pulse sequence and by setting the delay of transition selective pulses such that the evolution under the homonuclear coupling makes a complete 2 rotation. A detailed theoretical explanation of nonadiabatic geometric phases in NMR is given by using single transition operators. Controlled phase shift gates, two qubit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, and parity algorithm in a qubit-qutrit system have been implemented in various strongly dipolar coupled systems obtained by orienting the molecules in liquid crystal media.
We obtain the optimal scheme for estimating unknown qubit mixed states when an arbitrary number N of identically prepared copies is available. We discuss the case of states in the whole Bloch sphere as well as the restricted situation where these states are known to lie on the equatorial plane. For the former case we obtain that the optimal measurement does not depend on the prior probability distribution provided it is isotropic. Although the equatorial-plane case does not have this property for arbitrary N, we give a prior-independent scheme which becomes optimal in the asymptotic limit of large N. We compute the maximum mean fidelity in this asymptotic regime for the two cases. We show that within the pointwise estimation approach these limits can be obtained in a rather easy and rapid way. This derivation is based on heuristic arguments that are made rigorous by using van Trees inequalities. The interrelation between the estimation of the purity and the direction of the state is also discussed. In the general case we show that they correspond to independent estimations whereas for the equatorial-plane states this is only true asymptotically.
We propose an approach to realize an n-qubit controlled-U gate with superconducting quantum interference devices ͑SQUIDs͒ in cavity QED. In this approach, the two lowest levels of a SQUID represent the two logical states of a qubit while a higher-energy intermediate level serves the gate manipulation. Our method operates essentially by creating a single photon through one of the control SQUIDs and then performing an arbitrary unitary transformation on the target SQUID with the assistance of the cavity photon. In addition, we show that the method can be applied to implement an n-qubit controlled-U gate with atomic qubits in cavity QED.
Highly efficient, nearly deterministic, and isotope selective generation of Yb + ions by one-and two-color photoionization is demonstrated. State preparation and state selective detection of hyperfine states in 171 Yb + is investigated in order to optimize the purity of the prepared state and to time-optimize the detection process. Linear laser-cooled Yb + ion crystals confined in a Paul trap are demonstrated. Advantageous features of different previous ion trap experiments are combined, while at the same time the number of possible error sources is reduced by using a comparatively simple experimental apparatus. This opens a new path toward quantum state manipulation of individual trapped ions, and in particular, to scalable quantum computing.
We consider topological quantum computation ͑TQC͒ with a particular class of anyons that are believed to exist in the fractional quantum Hall effect state at Landau-level filling fraction =5/2. Since the braid group representation describing the statistics of these anyons is not computationally universal, one cannot directly apply the standard TQC technique. We propose to use very noisy nontopological operations such as direct short-range interactions between anyons to simulate a universal set of gates. Assuming that all TQC operations are implemented perfectly, we prove that the threshold error rate for nontopological operations is above 14%. The total number of nontopological computational elements that one needs to simulate a quantum circuit with L gates scales as L͑ln L͒ 3 .
A scheme based on photonic crystal technology is proposed as an ultrabright source of entangled photons on a miniaturized scale. The geometry consists of a multilayer microcavity, excited by a resonant pump frequency, such that the emitted photons are guided transversally to the direction of the incident pump. The entanglement occurs in direction, frequency, and polarization, and the bandwidth of the emitted photons is of the order of 1 nm. We propose a feasible design based on Al 0.3 Ga 0.7 As/ Al 2 O 3 structures and predict an emission rate 10 5 pairs per second with 100 mW pump power. These results are promising for realization of chip and future quantum computer applications.
We propose schemes to create cluster states and W states by many superconducting quantum-interferencedevice qubits in cavities under the influence of the cavity decay. Our schemes do not require auxiliary qubits, and the excited levels are only virtually coupled throughout the scheme, which could much reduce the experimental challenge. We consider the cavity decay in our model and analytically demonstrate its detrimental influence on the prepared entangled states.
Geometric phases are important in quantum physics and are now central to fault-tolerant quantum computation. For spin 1 / 2, the Bloch sphere S 2 , together with a U͑1͒ phase, provides a complete SU͑2͒ description. We generalize to N-level systems and SU͑N͒ in terms of a 2͑N -1͒-dimensional base space and reduction to a ͑N -1͒-level problem, paralleling closely the two-dimensional case. This iteratively solves the time evolution of an N-level system and gives ͑N -1͒ geometric phases explicitly. A complete analytical construction of an S 4 Bloch-like sphere for two qubits is given for the Spin͑5͒ or SO͑5͒ subgroup of SU͑4͒.
We first propose an experimental scheme to implement a two-qubit conditional z gate with atoms trapped in a high-Q optical cavity. The scheme is based on a combination of resonant interaction and quantum interference. Further, we show that the scheme can be directly generalized to implement an N-qubit conditional z gate, and the interaction time required to implement scheme does not change with increasing the number of qubits. This might lead to more efficient construction of quantum circuits and quantum algorithms.
We investigate the behavior of N atoms resonantly coupled to a single electromagnetic field mode sustained by a high quality cavity, containing a mesoscopic coherent field. We show with a simple effective Hamiltonian model that the strong coupling between the cavity and the atoms produces an atom-field entangled state, involving N + 1 nearly coherent components slowly rotating at different paces in the phase plane. The periodic overlap of these components results in a complex collapse and revival pattern for the Rabi oscillation. We study the influence of decoherence due to the finite cavity quality factor. We propose a simple analytical model, based on the Monte Carlo approach to relaxation. We compare its predictions with exact calculations and show that these interesting effects could realistically be observed on a two or three atoms sample in a 15 photon field with circular Rydberg atoms and superconducting cavities.
We show how radiation emitted from a collection of noninteracting two-level particles, which can be treated as qubits, can be used to detect a wide class of entangled states of this system. This result is an example of a macroscopical manifestation of entanglement that can be inferred from direct measurements. Some examples of physical effects directly related to the collective emission of radiation, such as photon echoes and superradiance, are discussed, suggesting some ways of how to experimentally witness entanglement with simple and standard techniques.
We study the effects of amplitude and phase damping decoherence in d-dimensional one-way quantum computation. We focus our attention on low dimensions and elementary unidimensional cluster state resources. Our investigation shows how information transfer and entangling gate simulations are affected for d ജ 2. To understand motivations for extending the one-way model to higher dimensions, we describe how basic qudit cluster states deteriorate under environmental noise of experimental interest. In order to protect quantum information from the environment, we consider encoding logical qubits into qudits and compare entangled pairs of linear qubit-cluster states to single qudit clusters of equal length and total dimension. A significant reduction in the performance of cluster state resources for d Ͼ 2 is found when Markovian-type decoherence models are present.
We propose a linear optical scheme for direct realization of a nondestructive N-qubit controlled phase gate without resorting to a sequence of single-and two-qubit gates. The proposed setup involves linear optical elements, nonmaximally entangled pairs of photons, and multiphoton coincidence detection. To implement the scheme, physical qubits represented by the polarization states of single photons are probabilistically encoded into the two-photon states. Based on such encoding operation, a nondestructive N-qubit phase gate can be directly achieved by N-photon interference on an array of polarization beam splitters and N-photon coincidence detection.
We study the bipartite entanglement dynamics in an anisotropic two-qubit Heisenberg XYZ model under the influence of population relaxation and in the presence of various types of magnetic fields. We find that the maximal value of the concurrence has an intrinsic rigidity for the different external magnetic fields. Moreover, our results demonstrate that it is possible to produce entangled states and to control or to modulate the concurrence within the intrinsic maximal value with the help of external time-varying fields despite the existence of dissipation.
We present detailed derivations, various improvements and application to concrete experimental data of spin squeezing inequalities formulated recently by some of us ͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 120502 ͑2005͔͒. These inequalities generalize the concept of the spin squeezing parameter and provide necessary and sufficient conditions for genuine two-, or three-qubit entanglement for symmetric states, and sufficient condition for general N-qubit states. We apply our method to theoretical study of Dicke states, and, in particular, to W states of N qubits. Then, we analyze the recently experimentally generated seven-and eight-ion W states ͓Nature 438, 643 ͑2005͔͒. we also present some details concerning this experiment. Finally, we improve criteria for detection of genuine tripartite entanglement based on entanglement witnesses.
True tripartite entanglement of the state of a system of three qubits can be classified on the basis of stochastic local operations and classical communications. Such states can be classified into two categories: GHZ states and W states. It is known that GHZ states can be used for teleportation and superdense coding, but the prototype W state cannot be. However, we show that there is a class of W states that can be used for perfect teleportation and superdense coding.
The average entanglement of random pure states of an N ϫ N composite system is analyzed. We compute the average value of the determinant D of the reduced state, which forms an entanglement monotone. Calculating higher moments of the determinant, we characterize the probability distribution P͑D͒. Similar results are obtained for the rescaled Nth root of the determinant, called the G concurrence. We show that in the limit N → ϱ this quantity becomes concentrated at a single point G Ã =1/e. The position of the concentration point changes if one consider an arbitrary N ϫ K bipartite system, in the joint limit N , K → ϱ, with K / N fixed.
A simple scheme is presented to generate N-qubit W states with rf superconducting quantum interference devices ͑SQUIDs͒ in cavity QED through adiabatic passage. Because of the achievable strong coupling for rf SQUID qubits embedded in cavity QED, we can get the desired state with high success probability. Furthermore, the scheme is insensitive to the position inaccuracy of the rf SQUID. Numerical simulation shows that, by using present experimental techniques, we can achieve our scheme with very high success probability, and the fidelity could eventually be unity with the help of dissipation.
What is the simplest Hamiltonian which can implement quantum computation without requiring any control operations during the computation process? In a previous paper we have constructed a ten-local finite-range interaction among qubits on a two-dimensional ͑2D͒ lattice having this property. Here we show that pairinteractions among qutrits on a 2D lattice are sufficient, too, and can also implement an ergodic computer where the result can be read out from the time average state after some postselection with high success probability. Two of the three qutrit states are given by the two levels of a spin-1 / 2 particle located at a specific lattice site, the third state is its absence. Usual hopping terms together with an attractive force among adjacent particles induce a coupled quantum walk where the particle spins are subjected to spatially inhomogeneous interactions implementing holonomic quantum computing. The holonomic method ensures that the implemented circuit does not depend on the time needed for the walk. Even though the implementation of the required type of spin-spin interactions is currently unclear, the model shows that quite simple Hamiltonians are powerful enough to allow for universal quantum computing in a closed physical system.
While exact cloning of an unknown quantum state is prohibited by the linearity of quantum mechanics, approximate cloning is possible and has been used, e.g., to derive limits on the security of quantum communication protocols. In the case of asymmetric cloning, the information from the input state is distributed asymmetrically between the different output states. Here, we consider asymmetric phase-covariant cloning, where the goal is to optimally transfer the phase information from a single input qubit to different output qubits. We construct an optimal quantum cloning machine for two qubits that does not require ancilla qubits and implement it on an NMR quantum information processor.
We examine the maximum entanglement reached by an initially fully aligned state evolving in an XY Heisenberg spin chain placed in a uniform transverse magnetic field. Both the global entanglement between one qubit and the rest of the chain and the pairwise entanglement between adjacent qubits is analyzed. It is shown that in both cases the maximum is not a monotonous decreasing function of the aligning field, exhibiting instead a resonant behavior for low anisotropies, with pronounced peaks ͑a total of ͓n /2͔ peaks in the global entanglement for an n-spin chain͒, whose width is proportional to the anisotropy and whose height remains finite in the limit of small anisotropy. It is also seen that the maximum pairwise entanglement is not a smooth function of the field even in small finite chains, where it may exhibit narrow peaks above strict plateaus. Explicit analytical results for small chains, as well as general exact results for finite n-spin chains obtained through the Jordan-Wigner mapping, are discussed.
We propose a scheme to implement an N-qubit conditional phase gate with N neutral atoms which are trapped in a large detuning optical cavity. In our scheme, since the cavity field is only required to be virtually excited, the phase gate operation is insensitive to the cavity decay and the gate can be implemented with a high fidelity.
Based on superconducting quantum interference devices ͑SQUID's͒ coupled to a cavity, we propose a scheme for implementing a quantum phase-shift gate and generating a W state by an adiabatic evolution of dark eigenstates, without any contributions from dynamical and geometric gates. The Sole requirement is of adiabatically increasing or decreasing Rabi frequencies of classical microwave pluses. Thus, the manipulation is robust against certain types of errors. We also analyze the experimental possibility that identical coupling can be achieved between SQUID qubits and cavity fields, and the cavity decay can be ignored in certain conditions. Based on a simple operation, our scheme may be realized in this solid-state system.
We evaluate the exact concurrence between any two spins in a cyclic XX chain of n spins placed in a uniform transverse magnetic field, at both zero and finite temperature, by means of the Jordan-Wigner transformation plus a number-parity-projected statistics. It is shown that, while at T = 0 there is always entanglement between any two spins in a narrow field interval before the transition to the aligned state, at low but nonzero temperatures the entanglement remains nonzero for arbitrarily high fields, for any pair separation L, although its magnitude decreases exponentially with increasing field. It is also demonstrated that the associated limit temperatures approach a constant nonzero value in this limit, which decreases as L -2 for L Ӷ n, but exhibit special finite-size effects for distant qubits ͑L Ϸ n /2͒. Related aspects such as the different behavior of even and odd antiferromagnetic chains, the existence of n ground-state transitions, and the thermodynamic limit n → ϱ are also discussed.
A laser-cooling experiment with Ca + ions trapped in a linear rf octupole ion trap is presented. The phase transition of the laser-cooled Ca + ions from the cloud to the crystal state is observed by an abrupt dip of the laser-induced fluorescence spectrum and indicates that mK temperatures are obtained. We have also performed molecular dynamics simulations under various conditions to confirm this property by deducing axially symmetric structures of Coulomb crystals and by evaluating the translational temperatures of the laser-cooled ions. The simulation results show that for small numbers of ions novel ring-shaped crystals are produced. As the number of ions is increased, cylindrical layers in the ring crystal are sequentially formed. For more than 100 ions, also hexagonal and spiral structures emerge in parts of the large-size ion crystal, which has a length on the order of millimeters for the present geometrical arrangement and voltages. An advantage of the linear rf octupole trap is its large almost-field-free region in the middle of the trap, where the micromotion amplitude is small for trapped ions. These results demonstrate that such a multipole trap has attractive features for quantum computing and ultracold ion-atom collision studies.
A scheme for implementing a three-qubit Toffoli gate with atoms sent through a microwave cavity is proposed by choosing nonidentical coupling constants between the atoms and cavity. The scheme can be generalized to implement an N-qubit Toffoli gate and the gating time does not change with an increase of the number of qubits.
Entanglement and entanglement assisted are useful resources to enhance the mutual information of the Pauli channels, when the noise on consecutive uses of the channel has some partial correlations. In this paper, we study quantum-communication channels in d-dimensional systems and derive the mutual information of the quantum channels for maximally entangled states and product states coding with correlated noise. Then, we compare fidelity between these states. Our results show that there exists a certain fidelity memory threshold, which depends on the dimension of the Hilbert space ͑d͒ and the properties of noisy channels. We calculate the classical capacity of a particular correlated noisy channel and show that in order to achieve Holevo limit, we must use d particles with d degrees of freedom. Our results show that entanglement is a useful means to enhance the mutual information. We choose a special nonmaximally entangled state and show that in the quasiclassical depolarizing and quantum depolarizing channels, maximum classical capacity in the higher memory channels is given by the maximally entangled state. Hence, our results show that for high error channels in every degree of memory, maximally entangled states have better mutual information.
An approach for performing a local measurement on a set of complete n-qubit maximally entangled states via cavity QED is presented. The method operates essentially by creating a single photon in the cavity through one qubit and then performing a joint multiqubit phase shift on the remaining qubits with the assistance of the photon. It is shown that for three-level qubit systems, a complete set of 2 n n-qubit maximally entangled states can be measured simultaneously, deterministic and independent of the number of qubits. Hence, the method is very efficient for realizing multiqubit GHZ-state measurement which is important to quantum information processing and communication.
We present a control-theoretic analysis of a system consisting of a two-level atom coupled with a quantum harmonic oscillator. We show that, by applying external fields with just two resonant frequencies, any desired unitary operator can be generated.
We present a one-step scheme for direct implementation of an N-qubit controlled-phase gate with atoms trapped in a high-Q optical cavity without resorting to a sequence of single-and two-qubit gates. The interaction time that is required to implement the scheme does not rise with increasing number of qubits. This might lead to more efficient construction of quantum circuits and quantum algorithms.
The coefficient 2R should be substituted with R / 2 everywhere in the paper. In page 3, on the line after Eq. ͑7͒, "ground state population" should be "excited state population." Finally, in the second paragraph of Appendix C, it should be ͑R , ͒ ജ 0 instead of ͑R , ͒ ഛ 0. These typos do not affect any of the results of the paper.
In this paper we study the SWAP operation in a two-qubit anisotropic XXZ model in the presence of an inhomogeneous magnetic field. We establish the range of anisotropic parameter within which the SWAP operation is feasible. The SWAP errors caused by the inhomogeneous field are evaluated.
We show that the ground state of the Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain in an external magnetic field, can be exactly expressed as a matrix product state, provided that the coupling constants are constrained to be on a specific two dimensional surface. This ground state has a very interesting property: all the pairs of spins are equally entangled with each other. In this last respect, the results are of interest for engineering long-range entanglement in experimentally realizable finite arrays of qubits, where the ground state will act as the initial state of a quantum computer.
A cogent theory of collective multipolelike quantum correlations in symmetric multiqubit states is presented by employing SO͑3͒ irreducible spherical tensor representation. An arbitrary bipartite division of this system leads to a family of inequalities to detect entanglement involving averages of these tensors expressed in terms of the total system angular momentum operator. Implications of this theory to the quantum nature of multipolelike correlations of all orders in the Dicke states are deduced. A selected set of examples illustrate these collective tests. Such tests detect entanglement in macroscopic atomic ensembles, where individual atoms are not accessible.
We find an invariant for n qubits and propose residual entanglement for n qubits by means of the invariant. Thus, we establish a relation between stochastic local operations and classical communication ͑SLOCC͒ entanglement and residual entanglement. Invariant and residual entanglement can be used for SLOCC entanglement classification of n qubits.
We study quantum systems with even numbers N of levels that are completely state controlled by unitary transformations generated by Lie algebras isomorphic to sp͑N͒ of dimension N͑N +1͒ / 2 as discussed by Albertini and D'Allesandro ͓IEEE Trans. Autom. Control 48, 1399 ͑2003͔͒. These Lie algebras are smaller than the corresponding su͑N͒ with dimension N 2 -1. We show that this reduction constrains the field-free Hamiltonian to have symmetric energy levels. An example of such a system is an n-qubit system with state-independent interaction terms. Using Clifford's geometric algebra to represent the quantum wave function of a finite system, we present an explicit example of a two-qubit system that can be controlled by the elements of the Lie algebra sp͑4͒ ͓isomorphic to spin͑5͒ and so͑5͔͒ with dimension 10 rather than su͑4͒ with dimension 15, but only if its field-free energy levels are symmetrically distributed about an average. These results enable one to envision more efficient algorithms for the design of fields for quantum-state engineering in certain quantum-computing applications, and provide more insight into the fundamental structure of quantum control.
We present a scheme which transforms a one-input qubit to M identical copies with optimal fidelity via free dynamical evolution of spin star networks. We demonstrate that the Heisenberg XXZ coupling can meet the challenge. The initial state of the copying machine and the parameters of the spin Hamiltonian are discussed in detail. Furthermore we have proposed a feasible method to prepare the initial state of the copying machine.
We propose a simple scheme to realize 1 → M economical phase-covariant quantum cloning machine ͑EPQCM͒ with superconducting quantum interference device ͑SQUID͒ qubits. In our scheme, multi-SQUIDs are fixed into a microwave cavity by adiabatic passage for their manipulation. Based on this model, we can realize the EPQCM with high fidelity via adiabatic quantum computation.
We study the disentanglement evolution of two spin qubits which interact with a general XY spin-chain environment. The dynamical process of the disentanglement is numerically and analytically investigated in the vicinity of a quantum phase transition ͑QPT͒ of the spin chain in both weak and strong coupling cases. We find that the disentanglement of the two spin qubits may be greatly enhanced by the quantum critical behavior of the environmental spin chain. We give a detailed analysis to facilitate the understanding of the QPT-enhanced decaying behavior of the coherence factor. Furthermore, the scaling behavior in the disentanglement dynamics is also revealed and analyzed.
We investigate the geometric characterization of pure state bipartite entanglement of ͑2 ϫ D͒-and ͑3 ϫ D͒-dimensional composite quantum systems. To this aim, we analyze the relationship between states and their images under the action of particular classes of local unitary operations. We find that invariance of states under the action of single-qubit and single-qutrit transformations is a necessary and sufficient condition for separability. We demonstrate that in the ͑2 ϫ D͒-dimensional case the von Neumann entropy of entanglement is a monotonic function of the minimum squared Euclidean distance between states and their images over the set of single qubit unitary transformations. Moreover, both in the ͑2 ϫ D͒-and in the ͑3 ϫ D͒-dimensional cases the minimum squared Euclidean distance exactly coincides with the linear entropy ͓and thus as well with the tangle measure of entanglement in the ͑2 ϫ D͒-dimensional case͔. These results provide a geometric characterization of entanglement measures originally established in informational frameworks. Consequences and applications of the formalism to quantum critical phenomena in spin systems are discussed.
We discuss the ground state entanglement of the E ⑀ Jahn-Teller model in the presence of a strong transverse magnetic field as a function of the vibronic coupling strength. A complete characterization is given of the phenomenon of entanglement sharing in a system composed by a qubit coupled to two bosonic modes. Using the residual I tangle, we find that three-partite entanglement is significantly present in the system in the parameter region near the bifurcation point of the corresponding classical model.
We employ conditional Tsallis q entropies to study the separability of symmetric one parameter W and GHZ multiqubit mixed states. The strongest limitation on separability is realized in the limit q → ϱ, and is found to be much superior to the condition obtained using the von Neumann conditional entropy ͑q = 1 case͒. Except for the example of two qubit and three qubit symmetric states of GHZ family, the q-conditional entropy method leads to sufficient-but not necessary-conditions on separability.
We numerically study the implementation of a NOT gate by laser pulses in a model molecular system presenting two electronic surfaces coupled by nonadiabatic interactions. The two states of the bit are the fundamental states of the cis-trans isomers of the molecule. The gate is classical in the sense that it involves a one-qubit flip so that the encoding of the outputs is based on population analysis which does not take the phases into account. This gate can also be viewed as a double photoswitch process with the property that the same electric field controls the two isomerizations. As an example, we consider one-dimensional cuts in a model of the retinal in rhodopsin already proposed in the literature. The laser pulses are computed by the multitarget optimal control theory with chirped pulses as trial fields. Very high fidelities are obtained. We also examine the stability of the control when the system is coupled to a bath of oscillators modeled by an ohmic spectral density. The bath correlation time scale being smaller than the pulse duration, the dynamics is carried out in the Markovian approximation
By virtue of single-photon interference, we present how to realize a nonlocal N-qubit conditional phase gate, which might be quite useful for the synthesis of arbitrary entangled quantum states of remote qubits required by distributed quantum information processing. Without considering photon loss, our scheme would work in a repeat-until-success fashion with an automatic feedback line added. Even by taking photon loss into consideration, only the success probability is affected, not the gate fidelity.
Isotropic XX models of one-dimensional spin-1/2 chains are investigated with the aim to elucidate the formal structure and the physical properties that allow these systems to act as channels for long-distance, high-fidelity quantum teleportation. We introduce two types of models: ͑i͒ open, dimerized XX chains, and ͑ii͒ open XX chains with small end bonds. For both models we obtain the exact expressions for the end-to-end correlations and the scaling of the energy gap with the length of the chain. We determine the end-to-end concurrence and show that model ͑i͒ supports true long-distance entanglement at zero temperature, while model ͑ii͒ supports "quasi-long-distance" entanglement that slowly falls off with the size of the chain. Due to the different scalings of the gaps, respectively exponential for model ͑i͒ and algebraic in model ͑ii͒, we demonstrate that the latter allows for efficient qubit teleportation with high fidelity in sufficiently long chains even at moderately low temperatures.
Tunnel ionization of room-temperature D 2 in an ultrashort ͑12 femtosecond͒ near infrared ͑800 nm͒ pump laser pulse excites a vibrational wavepacket in the D 2 + ions; a rotational wavepacket is also excited in residual D 2 molecules. Both wavepacket types are collapsed a variable time later by an ultrashort probe pulse. We isolate the vibrational wavepacket and quantify its evolution dynamics through theoretical comparison. Requirements for quantum computation ͑initial coherence and quantum state retrieval͒ are studied using this well-defined ͑small number of initial states at room temperature, initial wavepacket spatially localized͒ singleelectron molecular prototype by temporally stretching the pump and probe pulses.
We consider the problem of whether graph states can be ground states of local interaction Hamiltonians. For Hamiltonians acting on n qubits that involve at most two-body interactions, we show that no n-qubit graph state can be the exact, nondegenerate ground state. We determine for any graph state the minimal d such that it is the nondegenerate ground state of a d-body interaction Hamiltonian, while we show for dЈ-body Hamiltonians H with dЈ Ͻ d that the resulting ground state can only be close to the graph state at the cost of H having a small energy gap relative to the total energy. When allowing for ancilla particles, we show how to utilize a gadget construction introduced in the context of the k-local Hamiltonian problem, to obtain n-qubit graph states as nondegenerate ͑quasi͒ground states of a two-body Hamiltonian acting on nЈ Ͼ n spins.
The exchange coupling between two spins has been proposed as a control parameter over the states of the two-qubit space, so that it can be used to produce quantum gate operations, and in particular, the ͑SWAP͒ ␣ two-qubit quantum gate. In this work, we study the effect that the Dzyaloshinski-Moriya term ͑DM͒ has on the ͑SWAP͒ ␣ gate operation. By considering a time-dependent exchange interaction we have calculated dynamical properties for the probability of the two spin states, magnetization, concurrence, and fidelity of the required quantum gate to determine the effect of the anisotropic term on the ͑SWAP͒ ␣ gate operation. We present an analytical relation, valid in the subspace S z = 0, between the concurrence ͑measurement of entanglement͒ and the on-site magnetization as an observable. We also show, with calculation of the fidelity of the system, that the DM term, will add an intrinsic error to the gate that depends on its amplitude and the concurrence of the ␣ state.
We describe the results of stimulated Raman spectroscopy between the fine-structure levels, specifically 3d 2 D 3/2 and 3d 2 D 5/2 metastable states, in a single trapped 40 Ca + . Transitions between different Zeeman sublevels, split by an applied magnetic field, are clearly observed and the fine-structure level separation of = 1 819 599 021 504Ϯ 37 Hz is determined. This measurement provides a direct observation of this level separation. From the spectroscopic data, a prospect of using the D-fine structure levels as a qubit for the quantum information processing is reviewed.
The proof of Theorem 1 on page 4 contains an error, and one cannot conclude from the argument given that for classical protocols, the average bias is bounded from below. The mistake is that one cannot commute the max and the summation in the definition Eqs. ͑3͒ and ͑4͒. This mistake does not affect Theorem 2, which states that no classical protocol is secure with respect to min-entropy, or the analysis of the quantum protocol.
We propose a new physical approach for encoding and processing of quantum information in ensembles of multilevel quantum systems, where the different bits are not carried by individual particles but associated with the collective population of different internal levels. One-and two-bit gates are implemented by collective internal state transitions taking place in the presence of an excitation blockade mechanism, which restricts the population of each internal state to the values zero and unity. Quantum computers with 10 -20 bits can be built via this scheme in single trapped clouds of ground state atoms subject to the Rydberg excitation blockade mechanism, and the linear dependence between register size and the number of internal quantum states in atoms offers realistic means to reach larger registers.
We investigate the generation of quantum operations for one-qubit systems under classical Markovian noise with a 1/ f ␣ power spectrum, where 2 Ͼ ␣ Ͼ 0. We present an efficient way to approximate the noise with a discrete multistate Markovian fluctuator. With this method, the average temporal evolution of the qubit state operator under 1 / f ␣ noise can be feasibly determined from recently derived deterministic master equations. We obtain qubit operations such as quantum memory and the NOT gate to high fidelity by a gradient-based optimization algorithm. For the NOT gate, the computed fidelities are qualitatively similar to those obtained earlier for random telegraph noise. In the case of quantum memory, however, we observe a nonmonotonic dependency of the fidelity on the operation time, yielding a natural access rate of the memory.
The role of spin-orbit interaction in the ground state and thermal entanglement of a Heisenberg XYZ two-qubit system in the presence of an inhomogeneous magnetic field is investigated. We show that the ground state entanglement tends to vanish suddenly for a certain value of the spin-orbit parameter D and, when D crosses its critical value D c , the entanglement undergoes a revival. Indeed, when D crosses its critical value ͑D c ͒, the ground state entanglement tends to its maximum value ͑C =1͒. Also, at finite temperatures there are revival regions in the D-T plane. In these regions, entanglement first increases with increasing temperature and then decreases and ultimately vanishes for temperatures above a critical value. We find that this critical temperature is an increasing function of D and that the amount of entanglement in the revival region depends on the spin-orbit parameter. Therefore when spin-orbit interaction is included larger thermal entanglement can exist at higher temperatures. We also show that the rate of enhancement of thermal entanglement by D is not the same for ferromagnetic ͑J z Ͻ 0͒ and antiferromagnatic ͑J z Ͼ 0͒ chains. The entanglement teleportation via the quantum channel constructed by the above system is also investigated, and the influence of the spin-orbit interaction on the fidelity of teleportation and entanglement of replica states is studied. We show that, by introducing spin-orbit interaction, the entanglement of the replica state and fidelity of teleportation can be increased for the case of J z Ͻ 0. We also argue that a minimal entanglement of the channel is required to realize efficient entanglement teleportation and, in the case of J z Ͻ 0, this minimal entanglement can be achieved by introducing spin-orbit interaction.
Teleportation is a crucial element in fault-tolerant quantum computation and a complete understanding of its capacity is very important for the practical implementation of optimal fault-tolerant architectures. It is known that stabilizer codes support a natural set of gates that can be more easily implemented by teleportation than any other gates. These gates belong to the so-called C k hierarchy introduced by Gottesman and Chuang ͓Nature ͑London͒ 402, 390 ͑1999͔͒. Moreover, a subset of C k gates, called semi-Clifford operations, can be implemented by an even simpler architecture than the traditional teleportation setup ͓X. Zhou, D. W. Leung, and I. L. Chuang, Phys. Rev. A 62, 052316 ͑2000͔͒. However, the precise set of gates in C k remains unknown, even for a fixed number of qubits n, which prevents us from knowing exactly what teleportation is capable of. In this paper we study the structure of C k in terms of semi-Clifford operations, which send by conjugation at least one maximal Abelian subgroup of the n-qubit Pauli group into another one. We show that for n =1,2, all the C k gates are semi-Clifford, which is also true for ͕n =3,k =3͖. However, this is no longer true for ͕n Ͼ 2,k Ͼ 3͖. To measure the capability of this teleportation primitive, we introduce a quantity called "teleportation depth," which characterizes how many teleportation steps are necessary, on average, to implement a given gate. We calculate upper bounds for teleportation depth by decomposing gates into both semi-Clifford C k gates and those C k gates beyond semi-Clifford operations, and compare their efficiency.
Our paper gave a generalization to non-pulses of our results for the usual -pulse method to control decoherence, as published almost simultaneously in Ref. ͓1͔. The purpose of this Erratum is to acknowledge that large parts of our paper reproduced the material contained in Ref. ͓1͔ for the -pulse case, without giving a proper citation for the origin of the material, and so we wish to set the record straight by providing an appropriate citation and revised text. The corrections we would like to make are to replace the Abstract and the Introduction of our previous paper with the following, where the reference numbers correspond to those of our paper. We also add here three related references, ͓2-4͔, which concern the dynamical decoupling.
An algebraic method has been developed which allows one to engineer several energy levels including the low-energy subspace of interacting spin systems. By introducing ancillary qubits, this approach allows k-body interactions to be captured exactly using two-body Hamiltonians. Our method works when all terms in the Hamiltonian share the same basis and has no dependence on perturbation theory or the associated large spectral gap. Our methods allow problem instance solutions to be embedded into the ground energy state of Ising spin systems. Adiabatic evolution might then be used to place a computational system into its ground state.
proposed the definition of the residual entanglement for general n qubits by means of the stochastic local operations and classical communication. Here we argue that their definition is not suitable for
In D
In this Rapid Communication, we show analytically that all pure entangled states of two d-dimensional systems ͑qudits͒ violate the Collins-Gisin-Linden-Masser-Popescu ͑CGLMP͒ inequality. This property was pointed out by Gisin in the qubit case and then generalized by Gisin-Peres and Popescu-Rohrlich to the qudit case based on the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt ͑CHSH͒ inequality. We report the Gisin's theorem for two qudits by making use of the CGLMP inequality.
For quantum-information processing ͑QIP͒ with trapped ions, the isotope 43 Ca + offers the combined advantages of a quantum memory with long coherence time, a high-fidelity readout, and the possibility of performing two-qubit gates on a quadrupole transition with a narrow-band laser. Compared to other ions used for quantum computing, 43  Ca + has a relatively complicated level structure. We discuss how to meet the basic requirements for QIP and demonstrate ground-state cooling, robust state initialization, and efficient readout for the hyperfine qubit with a single 43 Ca + ion. A microwave field and a Raman light field are used to drive qubit transitions, and the coherence times for both fields are compared. Phase errors due to interferometric instabilities in the Raman field generation do not limit the experiments on a time scale of 100 ms. We find a quantum-information storage time of many seconds for the hyperfine qubit.
We propose two schemes to engineer four-partite entangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒ and W states in a deterministic way by using chains of ͑two-level͒ Rydberg atoms within the framework of cavity QED. These schemes are based on the resonant interaction of the atoms with a bimodal cavity that simultaneously supports, in contrast to a single-mode cavity, two independent modes of the photon field. In addition, we suggest the schemes to reveal the nonclassical correlations for the engineered GHZ and W states. It is shown how these schemes can be extended in order to produce general N-partite entangled GHZ and W states.
We consider the method of entanglement witness operator to verify genuine multipartite entanglement for single-particle W states involving N parties. In particular, linear optical schemes using photodetectors and beam splitters are proposed to implement two different types of witness operator in experiment. The first scheme that requires only a single measurement setting is shown to detect genuine multipartite entanglement for the overall efficiency beyond 1 -1 / N. On the other hand, the second scheme with N + 1 measurement settings achieves success at a significantly lowered efficiency than 1 -1 / N.
We present a multipartite entanglement measure for N-qubit pure states, using the norm of the correlation tensor which occurs in the Bloch representation of the state. We compute this measure for several important classes of N-qubit pure states such as Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W states and their superpositions. We compute this measure for interesting applications like the one-dimensional Heisenberg antiferromagnet. We use this measure to follow the entanglement dynamics of Grover's algorithm. We prove that this measure possesses almost all the properties expected of a good entanglement measure, including monotonicity. Finally, we extend this measure to N-qubit mixed states via convex roof construction and establish its various properties, including its monotonicity. We also introduce a related measure which has all properties of the above measure and is also additive.
We obtain, analytically, the global negativity, partial K-way negativities ͑K =2,3͒, Wootter's tangle, and three-tangle for the generic three-qubit canonical state. It is found that the product of global negativity and partial three-way negativity is equal to the three-tangle, while the partial two-way negativity is related to the tangle of qubit pairs. We also calculate similar quantities for the state canonical to a single-parameter ͑0 Ͻ q Ͻ 1͒ pure state which is a linear combination of a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and a W state. In this case, for q = 0.626 85, the state has zero three-tangle and zero three-way negativity, having only W-like entanglement. The difference between the product of global and partial three-way negativities and the threetangle for a given state is a quantitative measure of two-qubit coherences transformed by unitary transformations on the canonical state into three-qubit coherences. The global negativity and partial K-way negativities, obtained by selective partial transpositions on multiqubit state operators, satisfy inequalities which for three qubits are equivalent to the Coffman-Kundu-Wootter inequality.
We prove conjectures on the relative entropy of entanglement ͑REE͒ for two families of multipartite qubit states. Thus, analytical expressions of the REE for these families of states can be given. The first family of states is composed of mixtures of some permutation-invariant multiqubit states. The results generalized to multiqudit states are also shown to hold. The second family of states contains Dür's bound entangled states. Along the way, we discuss the relation of the REE to two other measures: robustness of entanglement and the geometric measure of entanglement, slightly extending previous results.
In Eq. ͑6͒ and the line before, the superscript r should be replaced by N, e.g., R ˜s ͑N͒ ͑ n ͒ instead of R ˜s ͑r͒ ͑ n ͒. In Sec. IV D, the last lines of the third paragraph should read as "In this case, Eve succeeds with probability p suc =5/ 8; that is, slightly better than random guessing. In general, when each bit of a message is encoded to ␣ qubits, and Eve performs ␣ successive SWAP tests to deduce it, the average success probability can be brought arbitrarily close to random guessing by choosing sufficiently large ␣."
A two-sphere ͑"Bloch" or ''Poincare''͒ is familiar for describing the dynamics of a spin-1 / 2 particle or light polarization. Analogous objects are derived for unitary groups larger than SU͑2͒ through an iterative procedure that constructs evolution operators for higher-dimensional SU͑N͒ in terms of lower-dimensional ones. We focus, in particular, on the SU͑4͒ of two qubits which describes all possible logic gates in quantum computation and entangled states in quantum-information sciences. For a general Hamiltonian of SU͑4͒ with 15 parameters, and for Hamiltonians of its various subgroups so that fewer parameters suffice, we derive Blochlike rotation of unit vectors analogous to the one familiar for a single spin in a magnetic field. The unitary evolution of a quantal spin pair is thereby expressed as rotations of real, many-dimensional vectors. Correspondingly, the manifolds involved are Bloch two-spheres along with higher dimensional manifolds such as a four-sphere for the SO͑5͒ subgroup and an eight-dimensional Grassmannian manifold for the general SU͑4͒. The latter may also be viewed as two, mutually orthogonal, real six-dimensional unit vectors moving on a five-sphere with an additional phase constraint. This geometrical picture for two spins provides the extension and generalization of the Bloch sphere that has proved invaluable for the understanding of the dynamics of a single spin.
Here we consider a class of 2 2 d density matrices which have positive partial transposes with respect to all subsystems. The entanglement witness approach is used to investigate the entanglement of these density matrices. To demonstrate the approach, the three-qubit case is considered in detail. For constructing entanglement witnesses ͑EWs͒ detecting these density matrices, we attempt to convert the problem to an exact convex optimization problem. To this aim, we map the convex set of separable states into a convex region, named feasible region, and consider the cases in which the exact geometrical shape of the feasible region can be obtained. In this way, various linear and nonlinear EWs are constructed. The optimality and decomposability of some of the introduced EWs are also considered. Furthermore, the detection of the density matrices by the introduced EWs are discussed analytically and numerically.
We introduce a phase-space representation for qubits and spin models. The technique uses an SU͑n͒ coherent-state basis and can equally be used for either static or dynamical simulations. We review previously known definitions and operator identities, and show how these can be used to define an off-diagonal, positive phase-space representation analogous to the positive-P function. As an illustration of the phase-space method, we use the example of the Ising model, which has exact solutions for the finite-temperature canonical ensemble in two dimensions. We show how a canonical ensemble for an Ising model of arbitrary structure can be efficiently simulated using SU͑2͒ or atomic coherent states. The technique utilizes a transformation from a canonical ͑imaginary-time͒ weighted simulation to an equivalent unweighted real-time simulation. The results are compared to the exactly soluble two-dimensional case. We note that Ising models in one, two, or three dimensions are potentially achievable experimentally as a lattice gas of ultracold atoms in optical lattices. The technique is not restricted to canonical ensembles or to Ising-like couplings. It is also able to be used for real-time evolution and for systems whose time evolution follows a master equation describing decoherence and coupling to external reservoirs. The case of SU͑n͒ phase space is used to describe n-level systems. In general, the requirement that time evolution be stochastic corresponds to a restriction to Hamiltonians and master equations that are quadratic in the group generators or generalized spin operators.
We show an efficient purification protocol in solid-state qubits by replacing the usual bilateral controlled-NOT gate by the bilateral iSWAP gate. We also show that this replacement can be applied to breeding and hashing protocols, which are useful for quantum state purification. These replacements reduce the number of fragile and cumbersome two-qubit operations, making more feasible quantum-information processing with solid-state qubits. As examples, we also present quantitative analyses for the required time to perform state purification using either superconducting or semiconducting qubits.
A geometric interpretation for the A fidelity between two states of a qubit system is presented, which leads to an upper bound of the Bures fidelity. The metrics defined based on the A fidelity are studied by the numerical method. An alternative generalization of the A fidelity, which has the same geometric picture, to an N-state quantum system is also discussed.
We generalize the correlation functions of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt ͑CHSH͒ inequality to multipartite d-dimensional systems. All the Bell inequalities based on this generalization take the same simple form as the CHSH inequality. For small systems, numerical results show that the new inequalities are tight and we believe this is also valid for higher-dimensional systems. Moreover, the new inequalities are relevant to the previous ones and, for bipartite systems, our inequality is equivalent to the Collins-Gisin-Linden-Masser-Popescu inequality.
In an experiment using the odd calcium isotope 43  Ca + , we combine the merits of a high-fidelity entangling operation on an optical transition ͑optical qubit͒ with the long coherence times of two "clock" states in the hyperfine ground state ͑hyperfine qubit͒ by mapping between these two qubits. For state initialization, state detection, global qubit rotations, and mapping operations, errors smaller than 1% are achieved, whereas the entangling gate adds errors of 2.3%. Based on these operations, we create Bell states with a fidelity of 96.9͑3͒% in the optical qubit and a fidelity of 96.7͑3͒% when mapped to the hyperfine states. In the latter case, the entanglement is preserved for 96͑3͒ ms, exceeding the duration of a single gate operation by three orders of magnitude.
Relaxation of the off-diagonal density-matrix elements between the metastable 3 2 D 3/2 and 3 2 D 5/2 states in a single 40 Ca + , which are separated from each other by 1.82 THz, is studied experimentally by using the Ramsey method of separated oscillating fields. The two metastable states are connected with a stimulated Raman transition by using two infrared lasers, which are phase locked with their frequency difference bridged by an optical frequency comb. By performing Ramsey measurements for two Zeeman components of the stimulated Raman transition with different sensitivities to magnetic fields, the coherence is investigated quantitatively and the effect of magnetic-field fluctuations on that is evaluated. By using a spin-echo pulse in a Ramsey sequence which is effective for inhomogeneous broadening processes, a visibility decay time of 5.1 ms is obtained. This is more than twice as long as that for normal sequences. This work is an essential step for realization of a qubit using the two metastable states and demonstrates coherent manipulation of the internal states separated by around a terahertz using phase-locked light sources.
Three-tangle for a rank-3 mixture composed of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger, W, and flipped-W states is analytically calculated. The optimal decompositions in the full range of parameter space are constructed by making use of the convex-roof extension. We also provide an analytical technique, which determines whether or not an arbitrary rank-3 state has vanishing three-tangle. This technique is developed by making use of the Bloch sphere S 8 of the qutrit system. The Coffman-Kundu-Wootters inequality is discussed by computing one-tangle and concurrences. It is shown that the one-tangle is always larger than the sum of squared concurrences and three-tangle. The physical implication of three-tangle is briefly discussed.
In tripartite discrete systems, two classes of genuine tripartite entanglement have been discovered, namely, the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒ class and the W class. To date, much research effort has been concentrated on the polarization entangled three-photon GHZ and W states. Most studies of continuous-variable multiparticle entanglement have been focused on Gaussian states. In this Brief Report, we examine two classes of three-photon entangled states in space and time. One class is a three-mode three-photon entangled state and the other is a two-mode triphoton state. These states show behavior similar to the GHZ and W states when one of the photons is not detected. The three-mode entangled state resembles a W state, while a two-mode threephoton state resembles a GHZ state when one of the photons is traced away. We characterize the distinction between these two states by comparing the second-order correlation functions G ͑2͒ with the third-order correlation function G ͑3͒ .
Both cavity quantum electrodynamics and photons are promising candidates for quantum information processing. We consider a combination of both candidates with a single photon going through spatially separate cavities to entangle the atomic qubits, based on the input-output process of the cavities. We present a general expression for the input-output process regarding the low-Q cavity confining a single atom, which works in a wide range of parameters. Focusing on low-Q cavity case, we propose some schemes for quantum information processing with Faraday rotation using single photons, which is much different from the high-Q cavity and strong-coupling cases.
The generalized n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒ states and their local unitary equivalents are the only pure states of n qubits that are not uniquely determined ͑among arbitrary states, pure or mixed͒ by their reduced density matrices of n -1 qubits. Thus, the generalized GHZ states are the only ones containing information at the n-party level.
Optical ͑2͒ nonlinearity can be used for parametric amplification and producing down-converted entangled photon pairs that have broad applications. It is known that weak nonlinear media exhibit dispersion and produce a frequency response. It is therefore of interest to know how spectral effects of a strong ͑2͒ crystal affect the performance. Here we model the spectral effects of the dispersion of a strong ͑2͒ crystal and illustrate how this affects its ability to perform Bell measurements and influence the performance of a quantum gates that employ such a Bell measurement. We show that a Dyson series expansion of the unitary operator is necessary in general, leading to unwanted spectral entanglement. We identify a limiting situation employing periodic poling, in which a Taylor series expansion is a good approximation and this entanglement can be removed.
We propose a simple scheme to establish entanglement among stationary qubits based on the mechanism of resonance scattering between them and a single-spin-flip wave packet in designed spin network. It is found that through the natural dynamical evolution of an incident single-spin-flip wave packet in a spin network and the subsequent measurement of the output single-spin-flip wave packet, multipartite entangled states among n stationary qubits, Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒, and W states can be generated with success probabilities P GHZ =2/ ͉1+t -n ͉ 2 and P W = ͉t͉ 2 / n, respectively, where t is the transmission amplitude of the near-resonance scattering.
Recently a test of nonclassicality for a single qubit was proposed ͓R. Alicki and N
We propose a quantum algorithm for the purification of a generic mixed state of a n-qudit system by using an ancillary n-qudit system. The algorithm is optimal in that ͑i͒ the number of ancillary qudits cannot be reduced, ͑ii͒ the number of parameters which determine the purification state ͉⌿͘ exactly equals the number of degrees of freedom of , and ͑iii͒ ͉⌿͘ is easily determined from the density matrix . Moreover, we introduce a quantum circuit in which the quantum gates are unitary transformations acting on a 2n-qudit system. These transformations are determined by parameters that can be tuned to generate, once the ancillary qudits are disregarded, any given mixed n-qudit state.
We study a ͑k , m͒-threshold controlling scheme for controlled quantum teleportation. A standard polynomial coding over GF͑p͒ with prime p Ͼ m -1 needs to distribute a d-dimensional qudit with d Ն p to each controller for this purpose. We propose a scheme using m qubits ͑two-dimensional qudits͒ for the controllers' portion, following a discussion on the benefit of a quantum control in comparison to a classical control of a quantum teleportation.
It was shown by Verstraete et al. ͓Phys. Rev. A 65, 052112 ͑2002͔͒ that by stochastic local operations and classical communication, a pure state of four qubits can be transformed to a state belonging to one of a set of nine families of states. By using selective partial transposition, we construct partial K-way negativities to measure the genuine four-partite, tripartite, and bipartite entanglements of single-copy states belonging to the nine families of four-qubit states. Partial K-way negativities are polynomial functions of local invariants characterizing each family of states, as such, entanglement monotones.
We investigate the possibility to achieve quantum gates using atoms confined in low-Q cavities by singlephoton input-output process. Different from in high-Q cavities with strong coupling, we may accomplish universal quantum gates on the atoms by Faraday rotations. Our idea could be applied to multiqubit gating on local and nonlocal atoms as well as on encoded qubits in decoherence-free subspace.
word "NAND" should be have been "CNOT." This error does not affect the results and, in fact, most readers will deduce this error from context since the four unitary operations defined following this sentence are indeed SWAP, DEC, INC, and CNOT.
We prove that the most general W class of N-qubit states are uniquely determined among arbitrary states ͑pure or mixed͒ by just their bipartite reduced density matrices. Moreover, if we consider only pure states, then ͑N -1͒ of them are shown to be sufficient.
We present several protocols for reliable quantum state transfer through an XY spin chain. Among these is a simple two-spin encoding that achieves a remarkably high-fidelity transfer for an arbitrary quantum state. The fidelity of the transfer also decreases slowly with increasing chain length. Furthermore, the reliability can be increased by taking advantage of a local memory and/or confirming transfer using a second spin chain. The simplicity and high fidelity of the encoding makes this a candidate for near-future experiments including a test of the quantum speed limit.
We compute concurrence and negativity as measures of two-spin entanglement generated by a power-law quench ͑characterized by a rate -1 and an exponent ␣͒ which takes an anisotropic XY chain in a transverse field through a quantum critical point ͑QCP͒. We show that only spins separated by an even number of lattice spacings get entangled in such a process. Moreover, there is a critical rate of quench, c -1 , above which no two-spin entanglement is generated; the entire entanglement is multipartite. The ratio of the entanglements between consecutive even neighbors can be tuned by changing the quench rate. We also show that for large , the concurrence ͑negativity͒ scales as ͱ ␣ / ͑␣ / ͒, and we relate this scaling behavior to defect production by the quench through a QCP.
We present a multipartite entanglement measure for N-qudit pure states, using the norm of the correlation tensor which occurs in the Bloch representation of the state. We compute this measure for an important class of N-qutrit pure states, namely, general GHZ states. We prove that this measure possesses all the essential and many desirable properties expected of a good entanglement measure, including monotonicity. We also discuss the feasibility of the experimental evaluation of this measure for an N-qutrit system.
We describe the measurement and compensation of optical Stark shifts induced by an off-resonant pulse for manipulating the terahertz-separated states 3 2 D 3/2 -3 2 D 5/2 , in a single trapped 40 Ca + ion. These states can be used as a quantum bit and are coupled by a two-photon stimulated Raman transition with phase-locked light sources bridged by an optical comb generator. The induced optical Stark shift is measured by Ramsey interferometry. We estimate the power ratio of Raman beams that cancel the level shift with an uncertainty of 170 Hz. A shift of the same amount as this uncertainty is estimated to give rise to an infidelity of approximately 7.6ϫ 10 -4 during a / 2 rotation operation.
Making use of the master equation and effective Hamiltonian approach, we investigate the steady-state entanglement in a three-qubit XX model. Both symmetric and nonsymmetric qubit-qubit couplings are considered. The system ͑the three qubits͒ is coupled to two bosonic baths at different temperatures. We calculate the steady state by the effective Hamiltonian approach and discuss the dependence of the steady-state entanglement on the temperatures and couplings. The results show that for symmetric qubit-qubit couplings, the entanglements between the nearest neighbors are equal, independent of the temperatures of the two baths. The maximum of the entanglement arrives at T L = T R . For nonsymmetric qubit-qubit couplings, however, the situation is totally different. The baths at different temperatures would benefit the entanglement and the entanglements between the nearest neighbors are no longer equal. By examining the probability distribution of each eigenstate in the steady state, we present an explanation for these observations. These results suggest that the steady entanglement can be controlled by the temperature of the two baths.
We investigate the entanglement dynamics of a two-qubit system which interacts with a Heisenberg XY spin chain constrained to carry an energy current. We show an explicit connection between the decoherence factor and entanglement, and numerically and analytically study the dynamical process of entanglement in both weakand strong-coupling cases for two initial states, the general pure state and the mixed Werner state. We provide results that the entanglement evolution depends not only on the energy current, the anisotropy parameter and the system-environment couplings but also on the size of degrees of freedom of environment. In particular, our results imply that entanglement will be strongly suppressed by the introduction of energy current on the environmental spin chain in the weak-coupling region while it is not sensitive to the energy current in the strong-coupling region. We also observe the sudden death of entanglement in the system and show how the energy current affects the phenomenon.
We present an approach for implementation of a 1 → 3 orbital state quantum cloning machine based on the quantum Zeno dynamics via manipulating three rf superconducting quantum interference device ͑SQUID͒ qubits to resonantly interact with a superconducting cavity assisted by classical fields. Through appropriate modulation of the coupling constants between rf SQUIDs and classical fields, the quantum cloning machine can be realized within one step. We also discuss the effects of decoherence such as spontaneous emission and the loss of cavity in virtue of master equation. The numerical simulation result reveals that the quantum cloning machine is especially robust against the cavity decay, since all qubits evolve in the decoherence-free subspace with respect to cavity decay due to the quantum Zeno dynamics.
We determine the conditions for the existence of a pair of degenerate parity breaking separable eigenstates in general arrays of arbitrary spins connected through XYZ couplings of arbitrary range and placed in a transverse field, not necessarily uniform. Sufficient conditions under which they are ground states are also provided. It is then shown that in finite chains, the associated definite parity states, which represent the actual ground state in the immediate vicinity of separability, can exhibit entanglement between any two spins regardless of the coupling range or separation, with the reduced state of any two subsystems equivalent to that of pair of qubits in an entangled mixed state. The corresponding concurrences and negativities are exactly determined. The same properties persist in the mixture of both definite parity states. These effects become specially relevant in systems close to the XXZ limit. The possibility of field induced alternating separable solutions with controllable entanglement side limits is also discussed. Illustrative numerical results for the negativity between the first and the j th spin in an open spin s chain for different values of s and j are as well provided.
We present a mapping which associates pure N -qubit states with a polynomial. The roots of the polynomial characterize the state completely. Using the properties of the polynomial we construct a way to determine the separability and the number of unentangled qubits of pure N -qubit states.
The quantum entanglement dynamics of a one-dimensional spin-1/2 anisotropic XXZ model is studied using the method of the adaptive time-dependent density-matrix renormalization group when two cases of quenches are performed in the system. An anisotropic interaction quench and the maximum number of domain walls of a staggered magnetization quench are considered. The dynamics of the pairwise entanglement between the nearest two qubits in the spin chain is investigated. The entanglement of the two spin qubits can be created and oscillates in both cases of the quench. The anisotropic interaction has a strong influence on the oscillation frequency of the entanglement.
We investigate low-temperature coherence properties of the Z 2 quantum memory which is capable of storing the information of a single logical qubit. We show that the memory has superposition of macroscopically distinct states for some values of a control parameter and at sufficiently low temperature and that the code states of this memory have no instability except for the inevitable one. However, we also see that the coherence power of this memory is limited by space and time. We also briefly discuss the resonating valence bond memory, which is an improvement of the Z 2 quantum memory, and the relations of our results to the obscured symmetry breaking in statistical physics.
We propose and work out a scheme to generate the entangled W states for a chain of N four-level atoms which are transported through an optical cavity by means of an optical lattice. This scheme is based on the combined lasercavity mediated interaction between distant and equally separated atoms and works in a completely deterministic way for qubits encoded by two hyperfine levels of the atoms. Only two parameters, namely the distance between the atoms and the velocity of the chain, determine the effective interaction among the atoms and, therefore, the degree of entanglement that is obtained for the overall chain of N qubits. In particular, we work out the parameter regions for which the W N states are generated most reliably for chains of N = 2, 3, 4 and 5 atoms. In addition, we analyze the sensitivity in the formation of entanglement for such chains of qubits due to uncertainties produced by the oscillations of atoms in optical lattices.
Employing the quantum Rényi α entropies as a measure of entanglement, we numerically find the violation of the strong superadditivity inequality for a system composed of four qubits and α > 1. This violation gets smaller as α → 1 and vanishes for α = 1 when the measure corresponds to the entanglement of formation. We show that the Rényi measure aways satisfies the standard monogamy of entanglement for α = 2, and only violates a high-order monogamy inequality, in the rare cases in which the strong superadditivity is also violated. The sates numerically found where the violation occurs have special symmetries where both inequalities are equivalent. We also show that every measure satisfying monogamy for high-dimensional systems also satisfies the strong superadditivity inequality. For the case of Rényi measure, we provide strong numerical evidences that these two properties are equivalent.
We report magnetic trapping of Yb in the excited 3 P 2 state. This state, with a lifetime of 15 s, could play an important role in studies ranging from optical clocks and quantum computation to the search for a permanent electric dipole moment. Yb atoms are first cooled and trapped in the ground state in a 399-nm magneto-optic trap. The cold atoms are then pumped into the excited state by driving the 1 S 0 → 3 P 1 → 3 S 1 transition. Atoms in the 3 P 2 state are magnetically trapped in a spherical quadrupole field with an axial gradient of 110 G/cm. We trap up to 10 6 atoms with a lifetime of 1.5 s.
The feasibility of Bell tests depends to a large extent on the tradeoff of difficulty between the preparation and the measurement of entangled systems. Polarization-entangled systems, though easy to measure, pose a relative challenge in their preparation. The opposite holds with entangled energy eigenstates for which the preparation is relatively straightforward. A way to perform measurements using a photodetector along the x, y, and z axes (in a Bloch sphere picture) on such Fock-state qubits shall be worked out, taking the W state as our entangled system. This will, by the same token, allow us to determine the minimum quantum efficiency required to perform a conclusive Bell test with the W energy eigenstate.
We describe single-shot readout of a trapped-ion multiqubit register using space-and time-resolved camera detection. For a single qubit we measure 0.9(3) × 10 -4 readout error in 400 µs exposure time, limited by the qubit's decay lifetime. For a four-qubit register (a "qunybble"), we measure an additional error of only 0.1(1) × 10 -4 per qubit, despite the presence of 4% optical cross-talk between neighboring qubits. A study of the cross-talk indicates that the method would scale with a negligible loss of fidelity to ∼10 000 qubits at a density of < ∼ 1 qubit/µm 2 , with a readout time of ∼1 µs/qubit.
We consider properties of states of many qubits, which arise after sending certain entangled states via various noisy channels (white noise, colored noise, local depolarization, dephasing, and amplitude damping). Entanglement of these states and their ability to violate certain classes of Bell inequalities are studied. States which violate them allow a higher than classical efficiency in solving related distributed computational tasks with constrained communication. This is a direct property of such states-not requiring their further modification via stochastic local operations and classical communication such as entanglement purification or distillation procedures. We identify families of multiparticle states which are entangled but nevertheless allow the local realistic description of specific Bell experiments. For some of them, the "gap" between the critical values for entanglement and violation of Bell inequality remains finite even in the limit of infinitely many qubits.
Quantum discord, a kind of quantum correlation, is defined as the difference between quantum mutual information and classical correlation in a bipartite system. In general, this correlation is different from entanglement, and quantum discord may be nonzero even for certain separable states. Even in the simple case of bipartite quantum systems, this different kind of quantum correlation has interesting and significant applications in quantum information processing. So far, quantum discord has been calculated explicitly only for a rather limited set of two-qubit quantum states and expressions for more general quantum states are not known. In this article, we derive explicit expressions for quantum discord for a larger class of two-qubit states, namely, a seven-parameter family of so called X states that have been of interest in a variety of contexts in the field. We also study the relation between quantum discord, classical correlation, and entanglement for a number of two-qubit states to demonstrate that they are independent measures of correlation with no simple relative ordering between them.
All-versus-nothing (AVN) proofs show the conflict between Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen's elements of reality and the perfect correlations of some quantum states. Given an n-qubit state distributed between m parties, we provide a method with which to decide whether this distribution allows an m-partite AVN proof specific for this state using only single-qubit measurements. We apply this method to some recently obtained n-qubit m-particle states. In addition, we provide all inequivalent AVN proofs with less than nine qubits and a minimum number of parties.
We study the interconversion of multipartite symmetric N -qubit states under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). We demonstrate that if two symmetric states can be connected with a nonsymmetric invertible local operation (ILO), then they belong necessarily to the separable, W, or Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) entanglement class, establishing a practical method of discriminating subsets of entanglement classes. Furthermore, we prove that there always exists a symmetric ILO connecting any pair of symmetric N -qubit states equivalent under SLOCC, simplifying the requirements for experimental implementations of local interconversion of those states.
We find the nearest product states for arbitrary generalized W states of n qubits, and show that the nearest product state is essentially unique if the W state is highly entangled. It is specified by a unit vector in Euclidean n-dimensional space. We use this duality between unit vectors and highly entangled W states to find the geometric measure of entanglement of such states.
We propose how to realize a three-step controlled-phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling n qubits in a cavity or coupled to a resonator. The n two-qubit controlled-phase gates, forming this multiqubit phase gate, can be performed simultaneously. The operation time of this phase gate is independent of the number n of qubits. This phase gate controlling at once n qubits is insensitive to the initial state of the cavity mode and can be used to produce an analogous CNOT gate simultaneously acting on n qubits. We present two alternative approaches to implement this gate. One approach is based on tuning the qubit frequency while in the other method the resonator frequency is tuned. Using superconducting qubits coupled to a resonator as an example, we show how to implement the proposed gate with one superconducting qubit simultaneously controlling n qubits selected from N qubits coupled to a resonator (1 < n < N). We also give a discussion on realizing the proposed gate with atoms, by using one cavity initially in an arbitrary state.
We theoretically present a method to realize a deterministic photon-photon √ SWAP gate using a three-level system interacting with single photons in reflection geometry. The system is used completely passively as a temporary memory for a photonic qubit; the initial state of the system may be arbitrary, and active control by auxiliary fields is unnecessary throughout the gate operations. These distinct merits make this entangling gate suitable for deterministic and scalable quantum computation.
Some of the asymmetric three-qubit W states are used for perfect teleportation, superdense coding, and quantum-information splitting. We present the protocols for the optimal distillation of the asymmetric as well as the symmetric W states from a single copy of any three-qubit W class pure state.
We show that when N 1 the geometric entanglement measure of general N-qubit W states, except maximally entangled W states, is a one-variable function and depends only on the Bloch vector with the minimal z component. Hence one can prepare a W state with the required maximal product overlap by altering the Bloch vector of a single qubit. Next we compute analytically the geometric measure of large-scale W states by describing these systems in terms of very few parameters. The final formula relates two quantities, namely the maximal product overlap and the Bloch vector, that can be easily estimated in experiments.
I explore the entanglement dynamics of a three-qubit system in an initial X state undergoing decoherence including the possible exhibition of entanglement sudden death. To quantify entanglement I utilize negativity measures and make use of appropriate entanglement witnesses. The negativity results are then extended to X states with an arbitraty number of qubits. I also demonstrate nonstandard behavior of the tripartite negativity entanglement metric: its sudden appearance after some amount of decoherence, followed quickly by its disappearance. Finally, I solve for a lower bound on the three-qubit X-state concurrence, demonstrate when this bound goes to 0, and outline simplifcations for the calculation of higher-order X-state concurrences.
We investigate the spatial search problem on the two-dimensional square lattice, using the Dirac evolution operator discretized according to the staggered lattice fermion formalism. d = 2 is the critical dimension for the spatial search problem, where infrared divergence of the evolution operator leads to logarithmic factors in the scaling behavior. As a result, the construction used in our accompanying article [A. Patel and M. A. Rahaman, Phys. Rev. A 82, 032330 (2010)] provides an O( √ N ln N ) algorithm, which is not optimal. The scaling behavior can be improved to O( √ N ln N) by cleverly controlling the massless Dirac evolution operator by an ancilla qubit, as proposed by Tulsi [Phys. Rev. A 78, 012310 (2008)]. We reinterpret the ancilla control as introduction of an effective mass at the marked vertex, and optimize the proportionality constants of the scaling behavior of the algorithm by numerically tuning the parameters.
Several families of states such as Werner states, Bell-diagonal states, and Dicke states are useful in understanding multipartite entanglement. Here we present a (2 N+1 -1)-parameter family of N -qubit "X states" that embraces all those families, generalizing previously defined states for two qubits. We also present the algebra of the operators that characterize the states and an iterative construction for this algebra, a subalgebra of su(2 N ). We show how a variety of entanglement witnesses can detect entanglement in such states. Connections are also made to structures in projective geometry.
We propose a scheme for storing arbitrary states of two superconducting charge qubits in a single 87 Rb cold-atom ensemble. The information of the two charge qubits is transferred sequentially into the single atomic ensemble, via a transmission line resonator serving as "data bus." We simulate the storage process by integrating the master equation that takes into account all kinds of decoherence mechanisms, and show that the mean storage fidelity is very high with the present experimental parameters. Moreover, the storage efficiency of the single ensemble in our scheme is double that of previous schemes. Finally, we also briefly discuss the possibilities and difficulties of extending it to multiqubit cases.
The hyperfine structure and isotope shifts of the 3s 2 3p 2 3 P 2 → 3s3p 3 3 D o 3 transition in silicon have been measured. The transition at 221.7 nm was studied by-laser induced fluorescence in an atomic Si beam. For 29 Si, the hyperfine A constant for the 3s 2 3p 2 3 P 2 level was determined to be -160.1 ± 1.3 MHz (1σ error), and the A constant for the 3s3p 3 3 D o 3 level is -532.9 ± 0.6 MHz. The isotope shifts (relative to the abundant isotope 28 Si) of the transition were determined to be 1753.3 ± 1.1 MHz for 29 Si and 3359.9 ± 0.6 MHz for 30 Si. This is an improvement by about two orders of magnitude over a previous isotope shift measurement. From these results we are able to predict the hyperfine structure and isotope shift of the radioactive 31 Si atom, which is of interest in building a scalable quantum computer.
We consider the input-output process with low-Q cavities confining atoms for quantum-information processing, based on a general expression for reflection coefficient of the single photon. Focusing on the qubit encoding in decoherence-free subspace (DFS), we propose entanglement generation, universal quantum computing, and multiqubit controlled phase flip, using individual photon input and output from the cavities. Because of the DFS and no requirement for high-Q cavities, our schemes are not only immune to dephasing but also feasible with currently available technology.
We consider an infinite one-dimensional anisotropic XY spin chain with a nearest-neighbor time-dependent Heisenberg coupling J (t) between the spins in presence of a time-dependent magnetic field h(t). We discuss a general solution for the system and present an exact solution for particular choice of J and h of practical interest. We investigate the dynamics of entanglement for different degrees of anisotropy of the system and at both zero and finite temperatures. We find that the time evolution of entanglement in the system shows nonergodic and critical behavior at zero and finite temperatures and different degrees of anisotropy. The asymptotic behavior of entanglement at the infinite time limit at zero temperature and constant J and h depends only the parameter λ = J/h rather than the individual values of J and h for all degrees of anisotropy but changes for nonzero temperature. Furthermore, the asymptotic behavior is very sensitive to the initial values of J and h and for particular choices we may create finite asymptotic entanglement regardless of the final values of J and h. The persistence of quantum effects in the system as it evolves and as the temperature is raised is studied by monitoring the entanglement. We find that the quantum effects dominate within certain regions of the kT -λ space that vary significantly depending on the degree of the anisotropy of the system. Particularly, the quantum effects in the Ising model case persist in the vicinity of both its critical phase transition point and zero temperature as it evolves in time. Moreover, the interplay between the different system parameters to tune and control the entanglement evolution is explored.
The concept of negativity font, a basic unit of multipartite entanglement, is introduced. Transformation properties of determinants of negativity fonts under local unitary (LU) transformations are exploited to obtain relevant N -qubit polynomial invariants and construct entanglement monotones from first principles. It is shown that entanglement monotones that detect the entanglement of specific parts of the composite system may be constructed to distinguish between states with distinct types of entanglement. The structural difference between entanglement monotones for an odd and even number of qubits is brought out.
Results of numerical Monte Carlo simulations for the Stark-tuned Förster resonance and dipole blockade between two to five cold rubidium Rydberg atoms in various spatial configurations are presented. The effects of the atoms' spatial uncertainties on the resonance amplitude and spectra are investigated. The feasibility of observing coherent Rabi-like population oscillations at a Förster resonance between two cold Rydberg atoms is analyzed. Spectra and the fidelity of the Rydberg dipole blockade are calculated for various experimental conditions, including nonzero detuning from the Förster resonance and finite laser linewidth. The results are discussed in the context of quantum-information processing with Rydberg atoms.
We investigate local contents in N -qubit generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states. We suggest a decomposition for correlations in the GHZ states into a nonlocal and fully local part, and find a lower and upper bound on the local content. Our lower bound reproduces the previous result for N = 2 [V. Scarani, Phys. Rev. A  77, 042112 (2008)] and decreases rapidly with N .
We investigate the detection of entanglement in n-partite quantum states. We obtain practical separability criteria to identify genuinely entangled and nonseparable mixed quantum states. No numerical optimization or eigenvalue evaluation is needed, and our criteria can be evaluated by simple computations involving components of the density matrix. We provide examples in which our criteria perform better than all known separability criteria. Specifically, we are able to detect genuine n-partite entanglement which has previously not been identified. In addition, our criteria can be used in today's experiments.
We investigate the dynamic behaviors of quantum discord for a central two-qubit system coupled to an XY -spin-chain environment. In the weak-coupling regime, we show that the quantum discord for the two central qubits can become minimized rapidly close to the critical point of a quantum phase transition. By considering the two qubits that are initially prepared in the Werner state, we study the evolution of the quantum discord and that of entanglement under the same conditions. Our results imply that entanglement can disappear completely after a finite time, while the quantum discord decreases and tends to be a stable value according to the initial-state parameter for a very-long-time interval. In this sense, the quantum discord is more robust than entanglement for the quantum system exposed to the environment. The relation between the quantum correlations and the classical correlation is also shown for two particular cases.
In this article we present a general security strategy for quantum secret sharing (QSS) protocols based on the scheme presented by Hillery, Bužek, and Berthiaume (HBB) [Phys. Rev. A 59, 1829 (1999)]. We focus on a generalization of the HBB protocol to n communication parties thus including n-partite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. We show that the multipartite version of the HBB scheme is insecure in certain settings and impractical when going to large n. To provide security for such QSS schemes in general we use the framework presented by some of the authors [M. Huber, F. Mintert, A. Gabriel, B. C. Hiesmayr, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 210501  (2010)] to detect certain genuine n-partite entanglement between the communication parties. In particular, we present a simple inequality which tests the security.
We investigate the physically allowed probabilities for transforming one N -partite W-class state to another by means of local operations assisted with classical communication. Recently, S. Kintas ¸and S. Turgut [J. Math.  Phys. 51, 092202 (2010)] obtained an upper bound for the maximum probability of transforming two such states. Here, we provide a simple sufficient and necessary condition for when this upper bound can be satisfied and, thus, when optimality of state transformation can be achieved. Our discussion involves obtaining lower bounds for the transformation of arbitrary W-class states and showing precisely when this bound saturates the bound of Kintas ¸and Turgut. Finally, we consider the question of transforming symmetric W-class states and find that, in general, the optimal one-shot procedure for converting two symmetric states requires a nonsymmetric filter by all the parties.
We study the state decay of two qubits interacting with a common harmonic oscillator reservoir. We find both a decoherence error and the error caused by the amplitude change of the superradiant state. We show that frequent π -phase pulses can eliminate both types of errors and therefore protect a two-qubit odd-parity state more effectively than the frequent measurement method. This shows that the methods using dynamical decoupling and the quantum Zeno effects actually can give rather different results when the operation frequency is finite.
We propose how to realize a multiqubit tunable phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling n qubits with four-level quantum systems in a cavity or coupled to a resonator. Each of the n two-qubit controlled-phase (CP) gates involved in this multiqubit phase gate has a shared control qubit but a different target qubit. In this proposal, the two lowest levels of each system represent the two logical states of a qubit while the two higher-energy intermediate levels are used for the gate implementation. The method presented here operates essentially by creating a single photon through the control qubit, which then induces a phase shift to the state of each target qubit. The phase shifts on each target qubit can be adjusted by changing the Rabi frequencies of the pulses applied to the target qubit systems. The operation time for the gate implementation is independent of the number of qubits, and neither adjustment of the qubit level spacings nor adjustment of the cavity mode frequency during the gate operation is required by this proposal. It is also noted that this approach can be applied to implement certain types of significant multiqubit phase gates (e.g., the multiqubit phase gate consisting of n two-qubit CP gates which are key elements in quantum Fourier transforms). A possible physical implementation of our approach is presented. Our proposal is quite general and can be applied to physical systems such as various types of superconducting devices coupled to a resonator and trapped atoms in a cavity.
Fluorescence of single, trapped 171 Yb + ions has been experimentally studied as a function of laser polarization, power, and detuning and as a function of magnetic field strength. The suppression of efficient fluorescence by coherent population trapping and the counteracting effect of the magnetic field are found to agree with theoretical predictions. For comparison, a fluorescence study has also been made of the isotope 174 Yb + for which coherent population trapping is absent on the main fluorescence and laser cooling transition. Finally, state-sensitive fluorescence detection of the 171 Yb + hyperfine qubit is studied, including the role of coherent population trapping in the optimization of detection parameters. A qubit detection fidelity of greater than 97% is achieved.
by showing how to efficiently implement quantum algorithms in this approach and by providing guide rules for the task.
In the definition of after Eq. ( 
Based on a theorem we establish on dynamical decoupling of time-dependent systems, we present a scheme of nested Uhrig dynamical decoupling (NUDD) to protect multiqubit systems in generic quantum baths to arbitrary decoupling orders, using only single-qubit operations. The number of control pulses in NUDD increases polynomially with the decoupling order. For general multilevel systems, this scheme can preserve a set of unitary Hermitian system operators which mutually either commute or anticommute, and hence all operators in the Lie algebra generated from this set of operators, generating an effective symmetry group for the system up to a given order of precision. NUDD can be implemented with pulses of finite amplitude, up to an error in the second order of the pulse durations.
Maximally entangled states (MES) represent a valuable resource in quantum information processing. In N -qubit systems the MES are N -GHZ states [i.e., the collection of
We study the steady optical response of a five-level atomic system in the parametric region where resonant two-photon transitions are much stronger than far-detuned single-photon transitions. We find that the concurrent absorption of two weak probe fields can be well suppressed in a narrow spectral region to attain electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) via quantum destructive interference between different two-photon transition pathways. To gain a deeper insight into relevant physics, we adiabatically reduce this five-level system with trivial single-photon transitions into a three-level system with vanishing single-photon transitions by deriving an effective Hamiltonian. The two systems have almost the same two-photon absorption spectra exhibiting typical EIT features but are a little different in fine details. This means that most characteristics of two-photon quantum destructive interference are reserved after the adiabatic elimination approximation. In addition, we verify by numerical calculations that the two-photon EIT spectra are insensitive to the dipole-dipole interaction of cold Rydberg atoms when the uppermost level has a high principle quantum number.
We construct a set of criteria detecting genuine multipartite entanglement in arbitrary dimensional multipartite systems. These criteria are optimally suited for detecting multipartite entanglement in n-qubit Dicke states with m excitations, as shown in exemplary cases. Furthermore, they can be employed to detect multipartite entanglement in different states related to quantum cloning, decoherence-free communication, and quantum secret sharing. In a detailed analysis, we show that the criteria are also more robust to noise than any other criterion known so far, especially with increasing system size. Furthermore, it is shown that the number of required local observables scales only polynomially with size, thus making the criteria experimentally feasible.
In a recent paper we have studied the peculiar features of the Berry and Aharonov-Anandan geometric phases for isolated spins S 1. We have assumed that they are submitted to a dipole and quadrupole coupling to external E and B fields with the mild restriction E • B = 0. This implies discrete symmetries leading to remarkable simplifications of the geometry and algebra involved. The aim of the present work is to describe realistic proposals, within the realm of atomic physics, for the verification of some of our most significant theoretical predictions. There are several challenges to be overcome. For alkali-metal atoms, most commonly used in atomic interferometers, the only practical way to generate quadrupole coupling, with a strength comparable to the dipole one, is the ac Stark effect induced by a nearly resonant light beam. One then has to face the instability of the"dressed" atom hyperfine (hf) level, a candidate for our isolated spin. One deleterious effect is the apparition of an imaginary part in the quadrupole to dipole coupling strength ratio, λ. Fortunately we have found a simple way to get rid of (λ) by an appropriate detuning. We are left with an unstable isolated spin. This implies an upper bound to the quantum cycle duration T c . In the case of the Berry's phase, T c has a lower bound due to the necessity of keeping the nonadiabatic corrections below a predefined level. We have found a compromise in the case of the F = 2,m = 0 87 Rb ground-state hf level. This is our candidate for the measurement of the somewhat "exotic" Berry's phase acquired by the S = 2,m = 0 state at the end of a quantum cycle involving a rotation of π of the E field-in practice, the linear polarization of the dressing beam -about the B field direction. We have found a way to implement, in a Ramsey-type interferometric measurement, the procedures aimed at controlling the nonadiabatic corrections, as described in detail in our previous theoretical paper. A numerical simulation of our experimental proposal shows that a 0.1% accurate determination of Berry's phase, free of nonadiabatic corrections, can be achieved. Measurements could also be considered for cold 52 Cr chromium atoms with S = 3, where values of λ 1 can be obtained with an instability smaller than in the 87 Rb case, due to a more favorable spectroscopic structure. The F = 1,m = 1 hf level of the 87 Rb ground state offers the opportunity to extend the measurement of Aharonov-Anandan's phases beyond the case S = 1 2 . We construct, using "light shift," the Hamiltonian H (t) generating a closed circuit in the density-matrix space which satisfies at any time the "parallel transport" condition, thus making the quantum cycle free from the adiabaticity condition. We also consider the case of half-integer spins (e.g., 201 Hg, 135 Ba, and 137 Ba), with their own specific features. We show how the difference of Berry's phases for states S = 3 2 and S = 1 2 , with m = 1 2 , can be exploited to achieve a holonomic maximum entanglement of three qubits.
We propose a way for generating n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) entangled states with a threelevel qubit system and (n -1) four-level qubit systems in a cavity. This proposal does not require identical qubit-cavity coupling constants and thus is tolerant to qubit-system parameter nonuniformity and nonexact placement of qubits in a cavity. The proposal does not require adjustment of the qubit-system level spacings during the entire operation. Moreover, it is shown that entanglement can be deterministically generated using this method and the operation time is independent of the number of qubits. The present proposal is quite general, which can be applied to physical systems such as various types of superconducting devices coupled to a resonator or atoms trapped in a cavity.
The continuous-variable controlled-Z gate is a canonical two-mode gate for universal continuous-variable quantum computation. It is considered as one of the most fundamental continuous-variable quantum gates. Here we present a scheme for realizing continuous-variable controlled-Z gate between two optical beams using an atomic ensemble. The gate is performed by simply sending the two beams propagating in two orthogonal directions twice through a spin-squeezed atomic medium. Its fidelity can run up to one if the input atomic state is infinitely squeezed. Considering the noise effects due to atomic decoherence and light losses, we show that the observed fidelities of the scheme are still quite high within presently available techniques.
A subspace of a multipartite Hilbert space is said to be locally indistinguishable if any orthonormal basis of this subspace cannot be perfectly distinguished by local operations and classical communication. Previously it was shown that any m ⊗ n bipartite system with m > 2 and n > 2 has a locally indistinguishable subspace. However, it has been an open problem since 2005 whether there is a locally indistinguishable bipartite subspace with a qubit subsystem. We settle this problem in negative by showing that any 2 ⊗ n bipartite subspace contains a basis that is locally distinguishable. As an interesting application, we show that any quantum channel with two Kraus operators has optimal environment-assisted classical capacity.
We investigate quantum state transfer in XY spin chains and propose a recursive procedure to construct the nonuniform couplings within these chains of arbitrary length in order to achieve perfect state transfer. We show that this method is capable of finding all possible coupling schemes for perfect state transfer. These schemes, without external control fields, involve analytically identified engineered couplings without the need for dynamical control. The analytical solutions provide all information for coupling design.
A system of three spin-1 2 atoms allows the construction of a reference-frame-free (RFF) qubit in the subspace with total angular momentum j = 1/2. The RFF qubit stays coherent perfectly as long as the spins of the three atoms are affected homogeneously. The inhomogeneous evolution of the atoms causes decoherence, but this decoherence can be suppressed efficiently by applying a bias magnetic field of modest strength perpendicular to the plane of the atoms. The resulting lifetime of the RFF qubit can be many days, making RFF qubits of this kind promising candidates for quantum information storage units. Specifically, we examine the situation of three 6 Li atoms trapped in a CO 2 -laser-generated optical lattice and find that, with conservatively estimated parameters, a stored qubit maintains a fidelity of 0.9999 for two hours.
Transmitting quantum states and entanglement through quantum channels is one of the key requirements for the development of quantum computation. Quantum discord has received much attention in quantum computation. We transfer quantum discord through two parallel XXZ spin chains with phase shift. The maximum discord can be enhanced by the phase shift. It will take more time to obtain an enhanced maximum discord in some cases, but for other cases, both the maximum and speed are enhanced by the phase shift. In the thermodynamic limit, the effect of the phase shift disappears and the maximum discord exponentially decays with increasing of the receiving position. Our results on spin chains are generalized to a family of linear Hamiltonians.
This paper proposes a quantum protocol for a cheat-sensitive commitment of a classical bit. Alice, the receiver of the bit, can examine dishonest Bob, who changes or postpones his choice. Bob, the sender of the bit, can examine dishonest Alice, who violates concealment. For each round-trip case, Alice sends one of two spin states |S± by choosing basis S at random from two conjugate bases X and Y. Bob chooses basis C ∈ {X,Y} to perform a measurement and returns a resultant state |C± . Alice then performs a measurement with the other basis R ( =S) and obtains an outcome |R± . In the opening phase, she can discover dishonest Bob, who unveils a wrong basis with a faked spin state, or Bob can discover dishonest Alice, who infers basis C but destroys |C± by setting R to be identical to S in the commitment phase. If a classical bit is coded in a block of m × n qubit particles, impartial examinations and probabilistic security criteria can be achieved.
Non-linear-optical properties in C 60 have attracted enormous attention for over two decades. The endohedral complex N@C 60 , with its remarkable thermal stability and spin-quartet ground state, is a candidate for future room-temperature quantum computing, but there has been no investigation of its non-linear-optical properties.
With a 9 Be + trapped-ion hyperfine-state qubit, we demonstrate an error probability per randomized singlequbit gate of 2.0(2) × 10 -5 , below the threshold estimate of 10 -4 commonly considered sufficient for faulttolerant quantum computing. The 9 Be + ion is trapped above a microfabricated surface-electrode ion trap and is manipulated with microwaves applied to a trap electrode. The achievement of low single-qubit-gate errors is an essential step toward the construction of a scalable quantum computer.
Quantum discord provides a measure for quantifying quantum correlations beyond entanglement and is very hard to compute even for two-qubit states because of the minimization over all possible measurements. Recently a simple algorithm to evaluate the quantum discord for two-qubit X states was proposed by Ali, Rau, and Alber [Phys. Rev. A 81, 042105 (2010)] with minimization taken over only a few cases. Here we shall at first identify a class of X states, whose quantum discord can be evaluated analytically without any minimization, for which their algorithm is valid, and also identify a family of X states for which their algorithm fails. And then we demonstrate that this special family of X states provides furthermore an explicit example for the inequivalence between the minimization over positive operator-valued measures and that over von Neumann measurements.
We address the propagation of a single-photon pulse with two polarization components, i.e., a polarization qubit, in an inhomogeneously broadened "phaseonium" -type three-level medium. We combine some of the nontrivial propagation effects characteristic for this kind of coherently prepared systems and the controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening technique to propose several quantum information-processing applications, such as a protocol for polarization qubit filtering and sieving as well as a tunable polarization beam splitter. Moreover, we show that by imposing a spatial variation of the atomic coherence phase, an efficient quantum memory for the incident polarization qubit can be also implemented in -type three-level systems.
The preparation of arbitrary N -particle Dicke states in a one-dimensional N -qubit chain with nearest-neighbor XXZ interaction is investigated. We show by perturbation approach that each of the N + 1 Dicke states can be approximately created as the nondegenerate ground state of the system when suitable external magnetic field and inter-qubit coupling are applied. In some small N situations, the perturbative results agree very well with the exact solutions. We further demonstrate by numerical methods that the proposed ground-state preparation of the Dicke states is robust against the finite temperature in the N = 4 case. We also discuss the feasibility of our scheme in several physical systems including semiconductor quantum dots and an optical lattice.
Universal quantum computation can be achieved by simply performing single-qubit measurements on a highly entangled resource state, such as cluster states. Cai, Miyake, Dür, and Briegel recently constructed a ground state of a two-dimensional quantum magnet by combining multiple Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki quasichains of mixed spin-3/2 and spin-1/2 entities and by mapping pairs of neighboring spin-1/2 particles to individual spin-3/2 particles [Phys. Rev. A 82, 052309 (2010)]. They showed that this state enables universal quantum computation by single-spin measurements. Here, we give an alternative understanding of how this state gives rise to universal measurement-based quantum computation: by local operations, each quasichain can be converted to a one-dimensional cluster state and entangling gates between two neighboring logical qubits can be implemented by single-spin measurements. We further argue that a two-dimensional cluster state can be distilled from the Cai-Miyake-Dür-Briegel state.
We classify, up to local unitary equivalence, local unitary stabilizer Lie algebras for symmetric mixed states of n qubits into six classes. These include the stabilizer types of the Werner states, the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and its generalizations, and Dicke states. For all but the zero algebra, we classify entanglement types (local unitary equivalence classes) of symmetric mixed states that have those stabilizers. We make use of the identification of symmetric density matrices with polynomials in three variables with real coefficients and apply the representation theory of SO(3) on this space of polynomials.
The Loschmidt echo (LE) of a central two-level qubit coupled to nonuniform anisotropic XY chains in a transverse field is studied. A general formula for LE is derived, which we use to discuss the influence of the criticality of the environment on LE. It is found that for the periodic XY chain the behaviors of LE in the vicinity of the critical points are similar to those of the uniform case. It is different for the disordered transverse Ising chains. For the aperiodic chains, if the surrounding systems are bounded chains, the behaviors of LE are similar to those of the uniform case, while if the surrounding systems are unbounded chains, they are similar to those of the disordered case.
In this article we obtain results for the task of converting a single N -qubit W -class state (of the form
We show that all multipartite pure states that are stochastic local operation and classical communication (SLOCC) equivalent to the N -qubit W state can be uniquely determined (among arbitrary states) from their bipartite marginals. We also prove that only (N -1) of the bipartite marginals are sufficient and that this is also the optimal number. Thus, contrary to the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) class, W -type states preserve their reducibility under SLOCC. We also study the optimal reducibility of some larger classes of states. The generic Dicke states |GD N are shown to be optimally determined by their ( + 1)-partite marginals. The class of "G" states (superposition of W and W ) are shown to be optimally determined by just two (N -2)-partite marginals.
We study the dynamics of two initially correlated qubits coupled to their own separate spin baths modeled by an XY spin chain and find the explicit expression of the quantum discord for the system. A sudden transition is found to exist between classical and quantum decoherence by choosing certain initial states. We show that the sudden transition happens near the critical point, which provides an alternative way to characterize the quantum phase transition. Furthermore, we propose a scheme to prolong the transition time of the quantum discord by applying the bang-bang pulses.
In addition to being a very interesting quantum phenomenon, Schrödinger-cat-state swapping has the potential for application in the preparation of quantum states that could be used in metrology and other quantum processing. We study in detail the effects of field decoherence on a Schrödinger-cat-state-swapping system comprising a set of identical qubits, or spins, all coupled to a field mode. We demonstrate that increasing the number of spins actually mitigates the effects of field decoherence on the collapse and revival of a spin Schrödinger-cat state, which could be of significant utility in quantum metrology and other quantum processing.
Inequality (1) in my 2002 paper is a compact form, exploiting the symmetry between the parties described in that paper, of the following tripartite Bell inequality:
We study an optimized measurement which discriminates N mixed quantum states occurring with given prior probabilities. The measurement yields the maximum achievable confidence for each of the N conclusive outcomes, thereby keeping the overall probability of inconclusive outcomes as small as possible. It corresponds to optimum unambiguous discrimination when for each outcome the confidence is equal to unity. Necessary and sufficient optimality conditions are derived and general properties of the optimum measurement are obtained. The results are applied to the optimized maximum-confidence discrimination of N equiprobable symmetric mixed states. Analytical solutions are presented for a number of examples, including the discrimination of N symmetric pure states spanning a d-dimensional Hilbert space (d N ) and the discrimination of N symmetric mixed qubit states.
We formulate a quantum formalism for the statistical mechanical models of discretized field theories on lattices and then show that the discrete version of φ 4 theory on 2D square lattice is complete in the sense that the partition function of any other discretized scalar field theory on an arbitrary lattice with arbitrary interactions can be realized as a special case of the partition function of this model. To achieve this, we extend the recently proposed quantum formalism for the Ising model [M.
One-way quantum computation by utilizing multipartite cluster states paves the way for the realization of universal quantum computation. However, quantum memory should be implemented in the practical systems to ensure the operations could be timed appropriately. A scheme of the controlled-X gate with a cache function for one-way quantum computation is proposed here. Due to the generation of a hybrid cluster state based on the interaction of light-atoms, the atom stations will not only be treated as the submodes of cluster states, but also implement the function of quantum memory.
Quantum correlations are expected to respect all the conditions required for them to be good measures of quantumness in the bipartite scenario. In a multipartite setting, sharing entanglement between several parties is restricted by the monogamy of entanglement. We take over the concept of monogamy to an information-theoretic quantum correlation measure, and find that it violates monogamy in general. Using the notion of interaction information, we identify necessary and sufficient conditions for the measure to obey monogamy, for arbitrary pure and mixed quantum states. We show that while three-qubit generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states follow monogamy, generalized W states do not.
In our article, there is an error in counting the number of biseparable states: the state |ψ corresponds to a different function than the state -|ψ . However, the tensor product |ψ 1 ⊗ |ψ 2 is identical to (-|ψ 1 ) ⊗ (-|ψ 2 ) and therefore represents the same function. We did not take this into account. Thus, the expression 2(2 n-2 -1) × 8 in the third paragraph of Sec. II has to be multiplied by a factor of 1 2 . The same factor, 1 2 , also has to multiply the expression for N bisep (k) in the last paragraph of Sec. II, as well as N DJ bisep in Eqs. ( 
We study random-number-expansion protocols based on the n → 1 quantum random access codes (QRACs). We consider them in the semi-device-independent scenario where the inner workings of the devices are unknown to us but we can certify the dimensions of the systems being communicated. This approach does not require the use of entanglement and makes the physical realization of these protocols much easier than in the standard device-independent scenario. In our work, we propose a protocol for randomness expansion, compute min-entropy for the semi-device-independent protocol, and investigate n → 1 QRACs with a view to their use in randomnessexpansion protocols. We also calculate the dependence of the effectiveness of the randomness generation on n and find it optimal for n = 3, and provide the explanation for this fact.
We consider two two-level atoms fixed at different positions, driven by a resonant monochromatic laser field, and interacting collectively with all the modes of the quantum electromagnetic field. A Born-Markov-secular master equation is used to describe the dynamics of the two atoms. When the atoms have the same coupling with the laser field, it is shown that their steady-state density operator is approximately an X state and this is used to obtain simple approximate analytic expressions for steady-state quantum and classical correlations which are characterized as functions of the laser field intensity and the distance between the two atoms. Moreover, the values of both the laser field intensity and the distance between the two atoms that maximize correlations are identified.
In this article, we extend recent results concerning random-pair Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen distillation and the operational gap between separable operations (SEPs) and local operations with classical communication (LOCC). In particular, we consider the problem of obtaining bipartite maximal entanglement from an N -qubit W-class state (i.e., that of the form
When visualized as an operation on the Bloch sphere, the qubit π/8 gate corresponds to 1/8 of a complete rotation about the vertical axis. This simple gate often plays an important role in quantum information theory, typically in situations for which Pauli and Clifford gates are insufficient. Most notably, if it supplements the set of Clifford gates, then universal quantum computation can be achieved. The π/8 gate is the simplest example of an operation from the third level of the Clifford hierarchy (i.e., it maps Pauli operations to Clifford operations under conjugation). Here we derive explicit expressions for all qudit (d-level, where d is prime) versions of this gate and analyze the resulting group structure that is generated by these diagonal gates. This group structure differs depending on whether the dimensionality of the qudit is two, three, or greater than three. We then discuss the geometrical relationship of these gates (and associated states) with respect to Clifford gates and stabilizer states. We present evidence that these gates are maximally robust to depolarizing and phase-damping noise, in complete analogy with the qubit case. Motivated by this and other similarities, we conjecture that these gates could be useful for the task of qudit magic-state distillation and, by extension, fault-tolerant quantum computing. Very recently, independent work by Campbell et al. confirmed the correctness of this intuition, and we build upon their work to characterize noise regimes for which noisy implementations of these gates can (or provably cannot) supplement Clifford gates to enable universal quantum computation.
We propose a way to realize a multiqubit tunable phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling n target qubits with atoms in cavity QED. In this proposal, classical pulses interact with atoms outside a cavity only, thus the experimental challenge of applying a pulse to an intracavity single atom without affecting other atoms in the same cavity is avoided. Because of employing a first-order large detuning, the gate can be performed fast when compared with the use of a second-order large detuning. Furthermore, the gate operation time is independent of the number of qubits. This proposal is quite general and can be applied to various superconducting qubits coupled to a resonator, nitrogen-vacancy centers coupled to a microsphere cavity, or quantum dots in cavity QED.
In a dipolar Fermi gas, the anisotropic interaction between electric dipoles can be turned into an effectively attractive interaction in the presence of a rotating electric field. We show that the topological p x + ip y superfluid phase can be realized in a single-component dipolar Fermi gas trapped in a two-dimensional square optical lattice with this attractive interaction at low temperatures. The p x + ip y superfluid state has potential applications for topological quantum computing. We obtain the phase diagram of this system at zero temperature. When the interaction is weak, the p-wave superfluid state is stable for most filling factors except near half filling, where phase separation takes place. In the weak-coupling limit, the phase-separation region vanishes. When the interaction strength is above a threshold, the system is phase separated for any filling factor 0 < n < 1. The transition temperature of the p x + ip y superfluid state is estimated and the implication for experiments is discussed.
Bell's theorem for systems more complicated than two qubits faces a hidden, as yet undiscussed, problem. One of the methods to derive Bell inequalities is to assume the existence of a joint probability distribution for measurement results for all settings in the given experiment. However, for spin-1 systems, one faces the problem that the eigenvalues of observables do not allow a consistent algebra if one allows all possible settings on each side (Bell's 1966 contradiction), or some specific sets (leading to a Kochen-Specker 1967 contradiction). We show here that by choosing a special set of settings which never lead to inconsistent algebra of eigenvalues, one can still derive multisetting Bell inequalities, and that they are robustly violated. Violation factors increase with the number of subsystems. The inequalities involve only spin observables, we do not allow all possible qutrit observables, still the violations are strong.
This paper considers the extension of the non-Markovian stochastic approach for quantum open systems strongly coupled to a fermionic bath to the models in which the system operators commute with the fermionic bath. This technique can also be a useful tool for studying open quantum systems coupled to a spin-chain environment, which can be further transformed into an effective fermionic bath. We derive an exact stochastic Schrödinger equation (SSE), called the fermionic quantum state diffusion (QSD) equation, from the first principle by using the fermionic coherent state representation. The reduced density operator for the open system can be recovered from the stochastic average of the solutions to the QSD equation over the Grassmann-type noise. By employing the exact fermionic QSD equation, we can derive the corresponding exact master equation. The power of our approach is illustrated by the applications of our stochastic approach to several models of interest including the one-qubit dissipative model, the coupled two-qubit dissipative model, the quantum Brownian motion model, and the N -fermion model coupled to a fermionic bath. Different effects caused by the fermionic and bosonic baths on the dynamics of open systems are also discussed.
We propose a sequence of pulses intended to preserve the state of a qubit in the presence of strong, coherent coupling to another quantum system. The sequence can be understood as a generalized SWAP sequence and works in formal analogy to the well-known spin echo. Since the resulting effective decoherence rate of the qubit state is strongly influenced by the additional system, this sequence might serve to protect its quantum state as well as negating the effects of the coherent coupling. A possible area of application is in large-scale quantum computing architectures, where spectral crowding of the resources might necessitate a method to mitigate residual couplings.
Recently, Vértesi and Bene [Phys. Rev. A 82, 062115 (2010)] derived a two-qubit Bell inequality I CH3 , which they show to be maximally violated only when more general positive operator-valued measures (POVMs) are used instead of the usual von Neumann measurements. Here we consider a general parametrization for the three-element POVM involved in the Bell test and obtain a higher quantum bound for the I CH3 inequality. With a higher quantum bound for I CH3 , we investigate whether there is an experimental setup that can be used for observing that POVMs give higher violations in Bell tests based on this inequality. We analyze the maximum errors supported by the inequality to identify a source of entangled photons that can be used for the test. Then we study whether POVMs are also relevant in the more realistic case where partially entangled states are used in the experiment. Finally, we investigate the required efficiencies of the I CH3 inequality, and the type of measurements involved, for closing the detection loophole. We obtain the result that POVMs allow for the lowest threshold detection efficiency, and that it is comparable to the minimal required detection efficiency (in the case of two qubits) of the Clauser-Horne-Bell inequality.
From both theoretical and experimental points of view symmetric states constitute an important class of multipartite states. Still, entanglement properties of these states, in particular those with positive partial transposition (PPT), lack a systematic study. Aiming at filling in this gap, we have recently affirmatively answered the open question of existence of four-qubit entangled symmetric states with PPT and thoroughly characterized entanglement properties of such states [J. Tura et al., Phys. Rev. A 85, 060302(R) ( 
We propose an encoding scheme to fight against σx -type local collective noise. In our scheme, a logical qubit consists of two charge qubits coupled by a variable capacitance, and different logical qubits are coupled by a common inductance. A logical qubit provides a decoherence-free subspace (DFS) immune to the σx -type collective noise. We show how to realize universal quantum computation in the DFS. Any two logical qubits can be selectively and controllably coupled by adjusting fluxes through the common inductance and superconductingquantum-interference-device loops, which makes it possible to scale our scheme up to a large number of logical qubits. Finally, we show how to prepare a logical qubit in the DFS.
Most quantum entanglement investigations are focused on two qubits or some finite (small) chain structure, since the infinite chain structure is a considerably cumbersome task. Therefore, the quantum entanglement properties involving an infinite chain structure is quite important, not only because the mathematical calculation is cumbersome but also because real materials are well represented by an infinite chain. Thus, in this paper we consider an entangled diamond chain with Ising and anisotropic Heisenberg (Ising-XXZ) coupling. Two interstitial particles are coupled through Heisenberg coupling or simply two-qubit Heisenberg, which could be responsible for the emergence of entanglement. These two-qubit Heisenberg operators are interacted with two nodal Ising spins. An infinite diamond chain is organized by interstitial-interstitial and nodal-interstitial (dimer-monomer) site couplings. We are able to get the thermal average of the two-qubit operator, called the reduced two-qubit density operator. Since these density operators are spatially separated, we could obtain the concurrence (entanglement) directly in the thermodynamic limit. The thermal entanglement (concurrence) is constructed for different values of the anisotropic Heisenberg parameter, magnetic field, and temperature. We also observed the threshold temperature via the parameter of anisotropy, Heisenberg and Ising interaction, external magnetic field, and temperature.
Most of known multipartite Bell inequalities involve correlation functions for all subsystems. They are useless for entangled states without such correlations. We give a method of derivation of families of Bell inequalities for N parties, which involve, e.g., only (N -1)-partite correlations, but still are able to detect proper N -partite entanglement. We present an inequality which reveals five-partite entanglement despite using only four-partite correlations. Classes of inequalities introduced here can be put into a handy form of a single nonlinear inequality. An example is given of an N -qubit state, which strongly violates such an inequality, despite having no N -qubit correlations. This surprising property might be of potential value for quantum information tasks.
We outline two general classes of examples of P T -symmetric quantum Liouvillian dynamics of open manyqubit systems, namely, interacting hard-core bosons (or more general XY Z-type spin-1/2 systems) having either (i) pure dephasing noise or (ii) solely single-particle (spin) injection (absorption) incoherent processes. The concept of P T symmetry is defined following Prosen [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 090404 (2012)] as a formal quantum Liouville-space analog of the parity-time PT symmetry used in nonconservative classical systems with symmetrically distributed gain and loss.
We propose a quantum memory for a single-photon wave packet in a superposition of two different colors, i.e., two different frequency components, using the electromagnetically induced transparency technique in a double-system. We examine a specific configuration in which the two frequency components are able to exchange energy through a four-wave mixing process as they propagate, so the state of the incident photon is recovered periodically at certain positions in the medium. We investigate the propagation dynamics as a function of the relative phase between the coupling beams and the input single-photon frequency components. Moreover, by considering time-dependent coupling beams, we numerically simulate the storage and retrieval of a two-frequency-component single-photon qubit.
Nonlinearity and entanglement are two important properties by which physical systems can be identified as nonclassical. We study the dynamics of the resonant interaction of up to N = 3 two-level systems and a single mode of the electromagnetic field sharing a single excitation dynamically. We observe coherent vacuum Rabi oscillations and their nonlinear √ N speedup by tracking the populations of all qubits and the resonator in time. We use quantum state tomography to show explicitly that the dynamics generates maximally entangled states of the W class in a time limited only by the collective interaction rate. We use an entanglement witness and the 3-tangle to characterize the state whose fidelity F = 78% is limited in our experiments by crosstalk arising during the simultaneous qubit manipulations which is absent in a sequential approach with F = 91%.
In this paper, we show that bipartite states of an electronic qubit and ionic qudit, produced in a laboratory in as simple an experiment as photoionization in electric dipole approximation, can be separable or can possess either free or bound entanglement. The dimension of the Hilbert space of the qudit depends upon the electronic state |1 + of the residual photoion A 1+ : In the absence of spin-orbit interaction (SOI), when Russell-Saunders coupling is applicable, it is equal to the spin multiplicity of |1 + , but becomes (2J + 1) in j -j coupling, where J is the total angular momentum of |1 + when SOI is taken into account. In the case of L-S coupling, all the properties (relevant to a study in quantum information) of a qubit-qudit state can readily be predicted merely with a knowledge of the spins of the atomic target and of the residual photoion which can experimentally be verified by measuring them using an entanglement witness, or any other such protocols, or by doing a full quantum-state tomography.
We find an algebraic formula for the N -partite concurrence of N qubits in an X matrix. X matrices are density matrices whose only nonzero elements are diagonal or antidiagonal when written in an orthonormal basis. We use our formula to study the dynamics of the N -partite entanglement of N remote qubits in generalized N -party Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states. We study the case in which each qubit interacts with a local amplitude damping channel. It is shown that only one type of GHZ state loses its entanglement in finite time; for the rest, N -partite entanglement dies out asymptotically. Algebraic formulas for the entanglement dynamics are given in both cases. We directly confirm that the half-life of the entanglement is proportional to the inverse of N . When entanglement vanishes in finite time, the time at which entanglement vanishes can decrease or increase with N depending on the initial state. In the macroscopic limit, this time is independent of the initial entanglement.
We demonstrate that perfect transfer of path-entangled photons as well as of single-photon states is possible in a certain class of spin inspired optical systems-the so-called J x photonic lattices. In these fully integrable optical arrangements, perfect cyclic transitions from correlated states to totally anticorrelated states can naturally occur. Moreover we show that the bunching and antibunching response of path-entangled photons can be preengineered at will in such coupled optical arrangements. We elucidate these effects via pertinent examples.
We propose a three-qubit partially entangled set of states as a shared resource for optimal and faithful quantum information processing. We show that our states always violate the Svetlichny inequality, which is a Bell-type inequality whose violation is a sufficient condition for the confirmation of genuine three-qubit nonlocality. Although our states can be physically realized from the generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GGHZ) states using a simple quantum circuit, the nonlocal properties of the set are quite different from the GGHZ states. Instead, they are similar to the maximal slice (MS) states, even though our states are not locally equivalent to the MS states. Unlike other two-and three-qubit partially entangled states, quantum teleportation using our states results in faithful transmission of information with unit probability and unit fidelity by performing only standard measurements for the sender, controller, and receiver. We further demonstrate that dense coding also leads to the deterministic transfer of a maximum number of bits from the sender to the receiver. We also introduce witness operators able to experimentally detect the family of states introduced. This work highlights the importance of both the local as well as nonlocal aspects of quantum correlations in multiqubit systems.
A possible building block for a scalable quantum computer has recently been demonstrated [Mariantoni  et al., Science 334, 61 (2011)]. This architecture consists of superconducting qubits capacitively coupled both to individual memory resonators as well as a common bus. In this work we study a natural primitive entangling gate for this and related resonator-based architectures, which consists of a controlled-σ z (CZ) operation between a qubit and the bus. The CZ gate is implemented with the aid of the noncomputational qubit |2 state [Strauch et al.,  Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 167005 (2003)]. Assuming phase or transmon qubits with 300 MHz anharmonicity, we show that by using only low frequency qubit-bias control it is possible to implement the qubit-bus CZ gate with 99.9% (99.99%) fidelity in about 17 ns (23 ns) with a realistic two-parameter pulse profile, plus two auxiliary z rotations. The fidelity measure we refer to here is a state-averaged intrinsic process fidelity, which does not include any effects of noise or decoherence. These results apply to a multiqubit device that includes strongly coupled memory resonators. We investigate the performance of the qubit-bus CZ gate as a function of qubit anharmonicity, identify the dominant intrinsic error mechanism and derive an associated fidelity estimator, quantify the pulse shape sensitivity and precision requirements, simulate qubit-qubit CZ gates that are mediated by the bus resonator, and also attempt a global optimization of system parameters including resonator frequencies and couplings. Our results are relevant for a wide range of superconducting hardware designs that incorporate resonators and suggest that it should be possible to demonstrate a 99.9% CZ gate with existing transmon qubits, which would constitute an important step towards the development of an error-corrected superconducting quantum computer.
We suggest an alternative definition of N -dimensional coined quantum walk by generalizing a recent proposal [Di Franco et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 080502 (2011)]. This N -dimensional alternate quantum walk, AQW (N) , in contrast with the standard definition of the N -dimensional quantum walk, QW (N) , requires only a coin qubit. We discuss the quantum diffusion properties of AQW (2) and AQW (3) by analyzing their dispersion relations that reveal, in particular, the existence of diabolical points. This allows us to highlight interesting similarities with other well-known physical phenomena. We also demonstrate that AQW (3) generates considerable genuine multipartite entanglement. Finally, we discuss the implementability of AQW (N) .
The equation has been corrected as of 20 February 2013.
We simulate the implementation of a T gate, or π 8 gate, for a 
We prove that a unitary matrix has an exact representation over the Clifford + T gate set with local ancillas if and only if its entries are in the ring Z[ 1 √ 2 ,i]. Moreover, we show that one ancilla always suffices. These facts were conjectured by Kliuchnikov, Maslov, and Mosca. We obtain an algorithm for synthesizing a exact Clifford + T circuit from any such n-qubit operator. We also characterize the Clifford + T operators that can be represented without ancillas.
The l-mixing effect and state-transfer induced by an external electric field pulse in ultracold Rydberg gases are observed with cesium atoms excited to nS states, and measured with a state selective field ionization technique. High-l states are populated from the initially excited nS states due to non-adiabatic transitions through avoided crossings that are formed between the nS state and the (n -4) manifold. The population of the product state is investigated as a function of the electric field pulse parameters. The coherent property of the transfer is demonstrated using a 2-pulse sequence and the results are consistent with the theoretical calculations. This l-mixing phenomenon in the electric field may be used to help forming a molecular potential and create Rydberg molecules.
We present a theoretical investigation of stimulated emission pumping to achieve sub-diffraction-limited spatial resolution in coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS) microscopy. A pair of control light fields is used to prepopulate the Raman state involved in the CARS process prior to the CARS signal generation. Efficient prepopulation is achieved by employing a path via an electronic or vibrational state. Thereby, the buildup of a coherence between the ground and Raman state during irradiation by the light fields for CARS signal generation is prevented, resulting in the suppression of the CARS intensity by more than 99.8%. Two-dimensional spatial excitation profiles have been calculated using donut-shaped spatial profiles for the control light fields, thus, an intensity-dependent narrowing of the CARS excitation profiles below the diffraction limit. Using computergenerated test images we demonstrate a resolution beyond the diffraction limit for CARS microscopy, which is scalable by the control light field intensity, similar to stimulated emission depletion microscopy.
The Toffoli gate, which has practical applications in the implementation of practical quantum algorithms and quantum error correction, is usually constructed from concatenated two-qubit or qubit-qutrit gates. Here we show that the Toffoli gate for three qubits can be implemented through a single XY interaction plus two single-qubit rotations. This method greatly simplifies the experimental implementation of the Toffoli gate and promises a much higher fidelity compared to those based on elementary gate decomposition. We present an example for the implementation of the required XY interaction in cavity QED.
Two schemes are proposed for the dissipative preparation of large W states, of the order of ten qubits, within the context of cavity QED. By utilizing properties of the irreducible representations of su(3), we are able to construct protocols in which it is possible to restrict the open-system dynamics to a fully symmetric irreducible subspace of the total Hilbert space and hence obtain analytic solutions for effective ground-state dynamics of arbitrary-size ensembles of atoms within an optical cavity. In the proposed schemes, the natural decay processes of spontaneous emission and photon loss are no longer undesirable, but essential to the required dynamics. All aspects of the proposed schemes relevant to implementation in currently available optical cavities are explored, especially with respect to increasing system size.
It is known that the n-qubit W -type state is determined by its bipartite reduced density matrices. In this paper, we show that the multipartite W -type state is uniquely determined by its reduced density matrices among W -type states in the sense of local unitary equivalence.
We discuss collapse and revival of Rabi oscillations in a system comprising a qubit and a "big spin" (made of N qubits, or spin-1/2 particles). We demonstrate a regime of behavior analogous to conventional collapse and revival for a qubit-field system, employing spin coherent states for the initial state of the big spin. These dynamics can be used to create a cat state of the big spin. Even for relatively small values of N , states with significant potential for quantum metrology applications can result, giving sensitivity approaching the Heisenberg limit.
] have recently introduced the so-called locally maximally entangleable (LME) states of n qubits which can be maximally entangled with local auxiliary qubits using controlled operations. We characterize the local entangleability of hypergraph states and W states using the approach of Kruszynska and Kraus. We show that (i) all hypergraph states are LME; (ii) hypergraph states and LME states are not equivalent under local unitaries; (iii) a W state of n qubits is not LME; and (iv) no hypergraph state of n qubits can be converted into the W state under local unitary transformations. Moreover, we also present an approach for encoding weighted hypergraphs into LME states.
We consider Bell experiments with N spatially separated qubits where loss is present and restrict ourselves to two measurement settings per site. We note the Mermin-Ardehali-Belinskii-Klyshko (MABK) Bell inequalities do not present a tight bound for the predictions of local hidden variable (LHV) theories. The Holder-type Bell inequality derived by Cavalcanti, Foster, Reid, and Drummond [E. G. Cavalcanti, C. J. Foster, M. D. Reid, and P. D. Drummond, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 210405 (2007)] provides a tighter bound, for high losses. We analyze the actual tight bound for the MABK inequalities, given the measure W = N k=1 η k of overall detection efficiency, where η k is the efficiency at site k. Using these inequalities, we confirm that the maximally entangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state enables loophole-free falsification of LHV theories provided N k=1 η k > 2 (2-N) , which implies a symmetric threshold efficiency of η → 50%, as N → ∞. Furthermore, loophole-free violations remain possible, even when the efficiency at some sites is reduced well below 0.5, provided N > 3.
We design a circuit structure with linear depth to implement an n-qubit Toffoli gate. The proposed construction uses a quadratic-size circuit that consists of elementary two-qubit controlled-rotation gates around the x axis and uses no ancilla qubit. Circuit depth remains linear in quantum technologies with finite-distance interactions between qubits. The suggested construction is related to the long-standing construction by A. Barenco et al.  [Phys. Rev. A 52, 3457 (1995)], which uses a quadratic-size, quadratic-depth quantum circuit for an n-qubit Toffoli gate.
We study the quantum error correction threshold of Kitaev's toric code over the group Z d subject to a generalized bit-flip noise. This problem requires special decoding techniques, and for this purpose we generalize the renormalization-group method we introduced previously [G.
We present a number of observables-based proofs of the Kochen-Specker (KS) theorem based on the N -qubit Pauli group for N 4, thus adding to the proofs that have been presented earlier for the 2-and 3-qubit groups. These proofs have the attractive feature that they can be presented in the form of diagrams from which they are obvious by inspection. They are also irreducible in the sense that they cannot be reduced to smaller proofs by ignoring some subset of qubits and/or observables in them. A simple algorithm is given for transforming any observables-based KS proof into a large number of projectors-based KS proofs; if the observables-based proof has O observables, with each observable occurring in exactly two commuting sets and any two commuting sets having at most one observable in common, the number of associated projectors-based parity proofs is 2 O . We introduce symbols for the observables-and projectors-based KS proofs that capture their important features and also convey a feeling for the enormous variety of both these types of proofs within the N -qubit Pauli group. We discuss an infinite family of observables-based proofs, whose members include all numbers of qubits from 2 up, and show how it can be used to generate projectors-based KS proofs involving only 9 bases (or experimental contexts) in any dimension of the form 2 N for N 2. Some implications of our results are discussed.
We develop efficient algorithms for compiling single-qubit unitary gates into circuits over the universal V basis. The V basis is an alternative universal basis to the more commonly studied basis consisting of Hadamard and π/8 gates. We propose two classical algorithms for quantum circuit compilation: the first algorithm has expected polynomial time [in precision log(1/ )] and produces an approximation to a single-qubit unitary with a circuit depth 12 log 5 (2/ ). The second algorithm performs optimized direct search and yields circuits a factor of 3 to 4 times shorter than our first algorithm, but requires time exponential in log(1/ ); however, we show that in practice the runtime is reasonable for an important range of target precisions. Decomposing into the V basis may offer advantages when considering the fault-tolerant implementation of quantum circuits.
Quantum discord is a measure of quantum correlation beyond entanglement. Computing quantum discord for simple quantum states is a basic problem. An analytical formula of quantum discord for two-qubit X states is first claimed in [Ali, Rau, and Alber, Phys. Rev. A 81, 042105 (2010)], but later found to be not always correct. I observe numerically that the formula is valid with worst-case absolute error 0.0021. For symmetric two-qubit X states, I give a counterexample to the analytical formula derived in [F. F. Fanchini et al., Phys. Rev. A 81, 052107  (2010)], but observe that the formula is valid with worst-case absolute error 0.0006. The formula has been used in many research papers. The results in all these works are approximately correct, even if they may not be exactly correct.
We develop a simple method for constructing polynomial invariants of degree 4 for even-n qubits and give explicit expressions for these polynomial invariants. We demonstrate the invariance of the polynomials under stochastic local operations and classical communication and exemplify the use of the invariance in classifying entangled states. The absolute values of these polynomial invariants are entanglement monotones, thereby allowing entanglement measures to be built. Finally, we discuss the properties of these entanglement measures.
In this Brief Report, we study the distinguishability of three-qubit quantum states by local operations and classical communication. We first determine α(S 5 ) = 4 [Duan, Xin, and Ying, Phys. Rev. A 81, 032329 (2010)] and also show a necessary condition for local distinguishability of three-qubit quantum states. Applying the characterization of orthogonal product states, we obtain two methods to discriminate mixed states with some constraints.
We study the dynamical behavior of a quantum cellular automaton which reproduces the Dirac dynamics in the limit of small wave vectors and masses. We present analytical evaluations along with computer simulations, showing that the automaton exhibits typical Dirac dynamical features, such as the Zitterbewegung and, considering the scattering from potential, the so-called Klein paradox. The motivation is to show concretely how pure processing of quantum information can lead to particle mechanics as an emergent feature, an issue that has been the focus of solid-state, optical, and atomic-physics quantum simulators.
The chiral p-wave (p x ± ip y ) superfluid has attracted significant attention in recent years, mainly because its vortex core supports a Majorana fermion which, due to its non-Abelian statistics, can be explored for implementing topological quantum computation. Mixing dipolar bosons with fermions in quasi-two-dimensional space offers the opportunity to use the roton minimum as a tool for engineering the phonon-induced attractive interaction between fermions. We study, within the Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov approach, the p-wave superfluid pairings in a quasi-two-dimensional dipolar Bose-Fermi mixture. We show that enhancing the induced interaction by lowering the roton minimum can affect the stability property of the mixture as well as the effective mass of the fermions in an important way. We also show that one can tune the system to operate in stable regions where chiral p-wave superfluid pairings can be resonantly enhanced by lowering the energy cost of the phonons near the roton minimum.
We propose a theoretical scheme to generate flux-qubit clusters using XY interactions. In our scheme, two neighboring qubits are coupled via a dc superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID). All flux qubits are always biased at their optimal points. The XY interaction can be controlled by the bias current applied to the SQUID for the two coupled qubits with the same resonance frequencies or by the frequency of a microwave pulse applied to the SQUID for the two coupled qubits with unequal resonance frequencies. The generation of a d-dimensional cluster state needs only 2d steps. Existing technology allows us to rapidly modulate the bias current and easily control the frequency of the pulse, and thus our scheme is experimentally feasible.
We extend the notion of compressed quantum simulation to the XY model. We derive a quantum circuit processing log(n) qubits which simulates the one-dimensional XY model describing n qubits. In particular, we demonstrate how the adiabatic evolution can be realized on this exponentially smaller system and how the magnetization, which witnesses a quantum phase transition, can be observed. Furthermore, we analyze several dynamical processes, like quantum quenching and finite time evolution, and derive the corresponding compressed quantum circuit.
Epitaxially grown quantum dots (QDs) are promising sources of nonclassical states of light such as single photons and entangled photons. However, in order for them to be used as a resource for long-distance quantum communication, distributed quantum computation, or linear optics quantum computing, these photons must be coupled efficiently to long-lived quantum memories as part of a quantum repeater network. Here, we theoretically examine the prospects for efficient storage and retrieval of a QD-generated single photon with a 1-ns lifetime in a multilevel atomic system. We calculate using an experimentally demonstrated optical depth of 150 that the storage (total) efficiency can exceed 46% (28%) in a dense, ultracold ensemble of 87 Rb atoms. Furthermore, we find that the optimal control pulse required for storage and retrieval can be obtained using a diode laser and an electro-optic modulator rather than a mode-locked, pulsed laser source. Increasing the optical depth, for example, by using Bose-condensed ensembles or an optical cavity, can increase the efficiencies to near unity. Aside from enabling a high-speed quantum network based on QDs, such an efficient optical interface between an atomic ensemble and a QD can also lead to entanglement between collective spin-wave excitations of atoms and the spin of an electron or hole confined in the QD.
We explore the implementation of pseudorandom single-qubit rotations and multiqubit pseudorandom circuits constructed only from Clifford gates and the T gate, a phase rotation of π/4. Such a gate set would be appropriate for computations performed in a fault tolerant setting. For single-qubit rotations the distribution of parameters found for unitaries constructed from Clifford plus T quickly approaches that of random rotations and requires significantly fewer gates than the construction of arbitrary single-qubit rotations. For Clifford-plus-T pseudorandom circuits we find an exponential convergence to a random matrix element distribution and a Gaussian convergence to the higher-order moments of the matrix element distribution. In addition, the nearest-neighbor eigenangle statistics distribution almost immediately converges to that of random unitary matrices. All of these convergence rates are found to be insensitive to the number of qubits.
We study the long-range quantum correlations in the anisotropic XY model. By first examining the thermodynamic limit, we show that employing the quantum discord as a figure of merit allows one to capture the main features of the model at zero temperature. Furthermore, by considering suitably large site separations we find that these correlations obey a simple scaling behavior for finite temperatures, allowing for efficient estimation of the critical point. We also address ground-state factorization of this model by explicitly considering finite-size systems, showing its relation to the energy spectrum and explaining the persistence of the phenomenon at finite temperatures. Finally, we compute the fidelity between finite and infinite systems in order to show that remarkably small system sizes can closely approximate the thermodynamic limit.
Circuit cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) is proving to be a powerful platform to implement quantum feedback control schemes due to the ability to control superconducting qubits and microwaves in a circuit. Here, we present a simple and promising quantum feedback control scheme for deterministic generation and stabilization of a three-qubit W state in the superconducting circuit QED system. The control scheme is based on continuous joint Zeno measurements of multiple qubits in a dispersive regime, which enables us not only to infer the state of the qubits for further information processing but also to create and stabilize the target W state through adaptive quantum feedback control. We simulate the dynamics of the proposed quantum feedback control scheme using the quantum trajectory approach with an effective stochastic maser equation obtained by a polaron-type transformation method and demonstrate that in the presence of moderate environmental decoherence, the average state fidelity higher than 0.9 can be achieved and maintained for a considerably long time (much longer than the single-qubit decoherence time). This control scheme is also shown to be robust against measurement inefficiency and individual qubit decay rate differences. Finally, the comparison of the polaron-type transformation method to the commonly used adiabatic elimination method to eliminate the cavity mode is presented.
We introduce a measure for the genuinely N-partite (all-party) entanglement of N-qubit states using the trace distance metric and find an algebraic formula for the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ)-diagonal states. We then use this formula to show how the all-party entanglement of experimentally produced GHZ states of an arbitrary number of qubits may be bounded with only four measurements.
Several types of nonclassical structures within the N -qubit Pauli group that can be seen as fundamental resources for quantum information processing are presented and discussed. Identity products (IDs), structures fundamentally related to entanglement, are defined and explored. The Kochen-Specker (KS) theorem is proved by particular sets of IDs that we call KS sets. We also present a theorem that we call the N -qubit Kochen-Specker (NKS) theorem, which is proved by particular sets of IDs that we call NKS sets, and whose utility is that it leads to efficient constructions for KS sets. We define the criticality, or irreducibility, of these structures, and its connection to entanglement. All representative critical IDs for up to N = 4 qubits are presented, and numerous families of critical IDs for arbitrarily large values of N are discussed. The critical IDs for a given N are a finite set of geometric objects that appear to fully characterize the nonclassicality of the N -qubit Pauli group. Methods for constructing critical KS sets and NKS sets from IDs are given, and experimental tests of entanglement, contextuality, and nonlocality are discussed. Possible applications and connections to other work are also discussed.
This paper shows how one can reconstruct an unknown n-qubit state by only a single apparatus. Its core is a redistribution of the information within an extended Hilbert space by coupling the unknown system with an assistant system through only a pairwise interaction, which results in a one-to-one mapping between the unknown density matrix elements and the probabilities of the occurrence of the eigenvalues of a single, factorized observable of the composite system. In such an interaction configuration, which is more feasible in experiments, the quality of the measurement only depends on that of the subsystem consisting a of one-qubit system coupled to a one-qubit assistant. We analyze in detail the performance of this procedure and experimentally implement it for reconstructing an unknown two-qubit state using a four-nuclear-spin system.
We present a systematic comparison of different methods of fidelity estimation of a linear optical quantumcontrolled-Z gate implemented by two-photon interference on a partially polarizing beam splitter. We utilize a linear fidelity estimator based on the Monte Carlo sampling technique as well as a nonlinear estimator based on maximum likelihood reconstruction of a full quantum-process matrix. In addition, we evaluate the lower bound on quantum-gate fidelity determined by average quantum-state fidelities for two mutually unbiased bases. In order to probe various regimes of operation of the gate we introduce a tunable time delay between the two photons. This allows us to move from high-fidelity operation to a regime where the photons become distinguishable and the success probability of the scheme significantly depends on the input state. We discuss in detail possible systematic effects that could influence the gate-fidelity estimation.
We propose an optical scheme to prepare large-scale entangled networks of W states. The scheme works by simultaneously fusing three polarization-encoded W states of arbitrary size via accessing only one qubit of each W state. It is composed of a Fredkin gate (controlled-swap gate), two fusion gates [as proposed in S. K. Ozdemir et al., New J. Phys. 13, 103003 (2011)], and an H -polarized ancilla photon. Starting with three n-qubit W states, the scheme prepares a new W state with 3(n -1) qubits after postselection if both fusion gates operate successfully, i.e., a fourfold coincidence at the detectors. The proposed scheme reduces the cost of creating arbitrarily large W states considerably when compared to previously reported schemes.
In this work, we introduce a family of [[6k,2k,2]] codes designed specifically to be compatible with adiabatic quantum computation. These codes support computationally universal sets of weight 2 logical operators and are particularly well suited for implementing dynamical decoupling error suppression. For Hamiltonians embeddable on a planar graph of fixed degree, our encoding maintains a planar connectivity graph and increases the graph degree by only two.
It is known that parity measurement, together with single-qubit rotation, is sufficient for implementing scalable quantum computation. In this Brief Report, we propose a scheme for a projective measurement of the parity operator P z = ⊗ N i=1 σ i,z of N distant atoms trapped in spatially separated cavities. Instead of direct interaction between the atoms, quantum interference of polarized photons decaying from the optical cavities is used to realize expected measurement without resorting to a sequence of single-and two-qubit operations. It is shown that parity measurement can be implemented repeatedly until success without destroying the qubits at any stage of the operation.
We introduce a discrete Q function of an N -qubit system projected into the space of symmetric measurements as a tool for analyzing general properties of quantum systems in the macroscopic limit. For known states the projected Q function helps to visualize the results of collective measurements, and for unknown states it can be approximately reconstructed by measuring the lowest moments of the collective variables.
We provide a recurrent construction of entanglement witnesses for a bipartite systems living in a Hilbert space corresponding to 2N qubits (N qubits in each subsystem). Our construction provides a method of generalization of the Robertson map that naturally meshes with 2N -qubit systems, i.e., its structure respects the 2 2N growth of the state space. We prove that for N > 1 these witnesses are indecomposable and optimal. As a byproduct we provide a family of PPT (Positive Partial Transpose) entangled states.
We found a cheating strategy for the quantum cheat-sensitive bit commitment protocol proposed in Phys. Rev. A 84, 022308 (2011). It enables the receiver of the commitment to cheat with a probability not less than 1/2, no matter what values are chosen for the security parameters in the protocol. More interestingly, the probability for successful cheating will rise as the number n of the particles used in the protocol increases and will be arbitrarily close to 100% in the limit n → ∞.
The basic entanglement-swapping scheme can be seen as a process which allows one to redistribute the Bell states properties between different pairs of a four-qubit system. We analyze a similar scheme by performing a Bell-von Neumann measurement over two local qubits, each one initially correlated through an X state with a spatially distant qubit. This process swaps the X feature without conditions, whereas the input entanglement is partially distributed in the four possible outcome states under certain conditions. Specifically, we obtain two threshold values for the entanglement of formation of the input X states in order for the outcome states to be nonseparable.
We present a simple tomographic protocol, for two-qubit systems, that relies on a single discriminatory transition and no direct spatially selective imaging. This scheme exploits excess micromotion in the trap to realize all operations required to prepare all input states and analyze all output states. We demonstrate a two-qubit entangling gate with a Bell state production fidelity of 0.981(6), and apply the above protocol to perform the first quantum process tomography of a Mølmer-Sørensen entangling gate. We characterize its χ -process matrix, the simplest for an entanglement gate on a separable-states basis, and observe that our dominant source of error is accurately modeled by a quantum depolarization channel.
It has been known that, among pure states, N -qubit W states cannot be uniquely determined by their arbitrary (N -1) bipartite reduced density matrices. Parashar and Rana proved that among arbitrary states, (N -1) bipartite reduced density matrices that the pairs of qubits constitute a star graph or a line graph can uniquely determine stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) equivalent W states, and we generalize this conclusion into tree graph. In this paper, we show that all SLOCC equivalent W states can be uniquely determined (among pure, mixed states) by their (N -1) bipartite reduced density matrices, if the (N -1) pairs of qubits constitute a tree graph on N vertices, where each pair of qubits represents an edge.
We study the dynamics of a system comprised of a single qubit interacting equally with N qubits (a "spin star" system). Although this model can be solved exactly, the exact solution does not give much intuition for the dynamics of the model. Here, we find an approximation that gives some insight into the dynamics for a particular class of initial spin-coherent states of the N qubits. We find an effective Hamiltonian for the system that is a finite Kerr (one-axis twisting) Hamiltonian for the N + 1 qubits. The initial spin-coherent state evolves to spin-squeezed states on short time scales, and to "multiple-Schrödinger-cat" states (superpositions of many spin-coherent states) on longer time scales, a manifestation of the phenomenon of fractional revivals of the initial state. The evolution of the system is visualized with phase-space plots (Q functions) that, when plotted against time, reveal a "quantum carpet" pattern. Of particular interest is the fact that our approximation captures the qualitative features of the model even for small values of N . This suggests the possibility of observing the phenomenon of fractional revival in this model for systems of few qubits.
A controlled-phase gate was demonstrated in superconducting Xmon transmon qubits with fidelity reaching 99.4%, relying on the adiabatic interaction between the |11 and |02 states. Here we explain the theoretical concepts behind this protocol, which achieves fast gate times with only σ z control of the Hamiltonian, based on a theory of nonlinear mapping of state errors to a power spectral density and use of optimal window functions. With a solution given in the Fourier basis, optimization is shown to be straightforward for practical cases of an arbitrary state change and finite bandwidth of control signals. We find that errors below 10 -4 are readily achievable for realistic control wave forms.
Self-testing is a device-independent method which can be used to determine the nature of a physical system or device, without knowing any detail of the inner mechanism or the physical dimensions of the Hilbert space of the system. The only information required comprises the number of measurements, the number of outputs of each measurement, and the statistics of each measurement. Earlier works on self-testing were restricted either to a two-party scenario or multipartite graph states. Here we construct a method to self-test the three-qubit W state and show how to extend it to other pure three-qubit states. Our bounds are robust against the inevitable experimental errors.
A scheme for suppressing the correlated noise in signals transmitted over the bosonic Gaussian memory channels is proposed. This is a compromise solution rather than removing the noise completely. The scheme is based on linear optical elements, two N -port splitters and N number of phase flips. The proposed scheme has the advantages that the correlated noise of the memory channels is greatly suppressed, and the input signal states can be protected excellently when transmitting over the noise channels. We examine the suppressing efficiency of the scheme for the correlated noise, both from quantum information of the states directly transmitted through the noise channel and also from the entanglement teleportation. The operation of phase flips in our scheme is important for the suppression of the correlated noise, which can diminish the effect of noise in quantum communication. Increasing the number of beam splitters also can improve the suppressing efficiency of the scheme in quantum communication.
The standard construction of complete sets of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) in prime power dimensions is based on the quadratic Gauss sums. We introduce complete MUB sets for three, four, and five qubits that are unitarily inequivalent to all existing MUB sets. These sets are constructed by using certain exponential sums, where the degree of the polynomial appearing in the exponent can be higher than 2. Every basis of these MUBs (except the computational) consists of two disjoint blocks of vectors with different factorization structures and associated with a unique hypergraph (or graph) that represents an interaction between the qubits.
We quantitatively analyze and evaluate the controller's power in N -qubit controlled teleportation schemes. We calculate the minimum control power required to ensure the controller's authority such that the teleportation fidelity without the controller's permission is no more than the classical bound. We revisit several typical controlled teleportation schemes from the controller's point of view and evaluate the control power in these schemes. We find that for teleporting arbitrary N -qubit states, each controller should control at least N bits of useful information to ensure his or her authority over the protocol. We also discuss the general rules that must be satisfied by controlled teleportation schemes to ensure both teleportation fidelity and control power.
We introduce an operational entanglement classification of symmetric mixed states for an arbitrary number of qubits based on stochastic local operations assisted with classical communication (SLOCC operations). We define families of SLOCC entanglement classes successively embedded into each other, we prove that they are of nonzero measure, and we construct witness operators to distinguish them. Moreover, we discuss how arbitrary symmetric mixed states can be realized in the laboratory via a one-to-one correspondence between well-defined sets of controllable parameters and the corresponding entanglement families.
Magic wavelengths, for which there is no differential ac Stark shift for the ground and excited state of the atom, allow trapping of excited Rydberg atoms without broadening the optical transition. This is an important tool for implementing quantum gates and other quantum information protocols with Rydberg atoms, and reliable theoretical methods to find such magic wavelengths are thus extremely useful. We use a high-precision all-order method to calculate magic wavelengths for the 5 s-18s transition of rubidium, and compare the calculation to experiment by measuring the light shift for atoms held in an optical dipole trap at a range of wavelengths near a calculated magic value.
We propose to produce five-partite entanglement via cascaded four-wave mixing in a high-Q microresonator that may become a key to future one-way quantum computation on chip. A theoretical model is presented for the underlying continuous-variable entanglement among the generated comb modes that is expansible to more complicated scenarios. We analyze the entanglement condition when the van Loock and Furusawa criteria are violated and discuss the device parameters for potential experimental realization that may be utilized to build an integrated compact five-partite entanglement generator. The proposed approach exhibits great potential for future large-scale integrated full optical quantum computation on chip.
We study the occurrence of errors in a continuously decoupled two-qubit state during a -/SWAP quantum operation under decoherence. We consider a realization of this quantum gate based on the Heisenberg exchange interaction, which alone suffices for achieving universal quantum computation. Furthermore, we introduce a continuous-dynamical-decoupling scheme that commutes with the Heisenberg Hamiltonian to protect it from the amplitude damping and dephasing errors caused by the system-environment interaction. We consider two error-protection settings. One protects the qubits from both amplitude damping and dephasing errors. The other features the amplitude damping as a residual error and protects the qubits from dephasing errors only. In both settings, we investigate the interaction of qubits with common and independent environments separately. We study how errors affect the entanglement and fidelity for different environmental spectral densities.
By properly driving a qubit-resonator system in the strong dispersive regime, we implement an "impedancematched" system in the dressed states, where a resonant single photon deterministically induces a Raman transition and excites the qubit. Combining this effect and a fast dispersive readout of the qubit, we realize a detector of itinerant microwave photons. We theoretically analyze the single-photon response of the system and evaluate its performance as a detector. We achieve a high detection efficiency without relying on precise temporal control of the input pulse shape and under a conservative estimate of the system parameters. The detector can also be reset quickly by applying microwave pulses, which allows a short dead time and a high repetition rate.
We discuss the prospect of PT -symmetric Hamiltonians finding applications in quantum information science, and conclude that such evolution is unlikely to provide any benefit over existing techniques. Although it has been known for some time that PT -symmetric quantum theory, when viewed as a unitary theory, is exactly equivalent to standard quantum mechanics, proposals continue to be put forward for schemes in which PT -symmetric quantum theory can outperform standard quantum theory. The most recent of these is the suggestion to use PT -symmetric Hamiltonians to perform an exponentially fast database search, a task known to be impossible with a quantum computer. Further, such a scheme has been shown to apparently produce effects in conflict with fundamental information-theoretic principles, such as the impossibility of superluminal information transfer, and the invariance of entanglement under local operations. In this paper we propose three inequivalent experimental implementations of PT -symmetric Hamiltonians, with careful attention to the resources required to realize each such evolution. Such an operational approach allows us to resolve these apparent conflicts, and evaluate fully schemes proposed in the literature for faster time evolution and state discrimination.
Precision control of quantum systems is the driving force for both quantum technology and the probing of physics at the quantum and nanoscale levels. We propose an implementation-independent method for in situ quantum control that leverages recent advances in the direct estimation of quantum gate fidelity. Our algorithm takes account of the stochasticity of the problem, is suitable for closed-loop control, and requires only a constant number of fidelity-estimating experiments per iteration independent of the dimension of the control space. It is efficient and robust to both statistical and technical noise.
We study quantum phase transitions in non-Hermitian XY and transverse-field Ising spin chains, in which the non-Hermiticity arises from the imaginary magnetic field. Analytical and numerical results show that at exceptional points, coalescing eigenstates in these models are close to W, distant Bell, and GHZ states, which can be steady states in the dynamical preparation scheme proposed by Lee et al. [T. E. Lee et al., Phys. Rev. Lett.  113, 250401 (2014)]. By selecting proper initial states, numerical simulations demonstrate the time evolution process to the target states with high fidelity.
We examine a class of operations for topological quantum computation based on fusing and measuring topological charges for systems with SU(2) 4 or k = 4 Jones-Kauffman anyons. We show that such operations augment the braiding operations, which, by themselves, are not computationally universal. This augmentation results in a computationally universal gate set through the generation of an exact, topologically protected irrational phase gate and an approximate, topologically protected controlled-Z gate.
Constructing a universal operation scheme for Majorana qubits remains a central issue for the topological quantum computation. We study the Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interference in a Majorana qubit and show that this interference can be used to achieve controllable operations. The Majorana qubit consists of an rf superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) with a topological nanowire Josephson junction which hosts Majorana bound states. In the SQUID, a magnetic flux pulse can drive the quantum evolution of the Majorana qubit. The qubit experiences two Landau-Zener transitions when the amplitude of the pulse is tuned around the superconducting flux quanta h/2e. The Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interference between the two transitions rotates the Majorana qubit, with the angle controlled by the time scale of the pulse. This rotation operation implements a high-speed single-qubit gate on the Majorana qubit, which is a necessary ingredient for the topological quantum computation.
We study the problem of closing the detection loophole in three-qubit Bell tests, the experimentally most relevant case beyond the usual bipartite scenario, and show that the minimal detection efficiencies required can be considerably lowered compared to the two-qubit case. The lowest reported detection efficiency thresholds for two and three qubits so far are ∼66.7 and 60%, respectively. Using the three-qubit W state and a three-setting Bell inequality, we beat these thresholds and with an eight-setting Bell inequality we reach 50.13%. We also investigate generic three-qubit states which allow us to attain a detection efficiency of 50% in a four-setting Bell test. We conjecture that the limit of 50% is unbeatable using three-qubit states and any number of measurements.
We experimentally construct a three-qubit entangled W superposition (W W ) state on an NMR quantum information processor. We give a measurement-based filtration protocol for the invertible local operation (ILO) that converts the W W state to the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state, using a register of three ancilla qubits. Further we implement an experimental protocol to reconstruct full information about the three-party W W state using only two-party reduced density matrices. An intriguing fact unearthed recently is that the W W state, which is equivalent to the GHZ state under an ILO, is in fact reconstructible from its two-party reduced density matrices, unlike the GHZ state. We hence demonstrate that, although the W W state is interconvertible with the GHZ state, it stores entanglement very differently.
We propose and experimentally demonstrate a scheme for the implementation of a maximally entangling quantum controlled-Z gate between two weakly interacting systems. We conditionally enhance the interqubit coupling by quantum interference. Both before and after the interqubit interaction, one of the qubits is coherently coupled to an auxiliary quantum system, and finally it is projected back onto qubit subspace. We experimentally verify the practical feasibility of this technique by using a linear optical setup with weak interferometric coupling between single-photon qubits. Our procedure is universally applicable to a wide range of physical platforms including hybrid systems such as atomic clouds or optomechanical oscillators coupled to light.
We give an example of a wide class of problems for which quantum-information protocols based on multisystem entanglement can be mapped into much simpler ones involving one system. Secret sharing is a cryptographic primitive which plays a central role in various secure multiparty computation tasks and management of keys in cryptography. In secret sharing protocols, a classical message is divided into shares given to recipient parties in such a way that some number of parties need to collaborate in order to reconstruct the message. Quantum protocols for the task commonly rely on multipartite GHZ entanglement. We present a multiparty secret sharing protocol which requires only sequential communication of a single quantum d-level system (for any prime d). It has huge advantages in scalability and can be realized with state-of-the-art technology.
Dynamical decoupling has been actively investigated since Viola first suggested using a pulse sequence to protect a qubit from decoherence. Since then, many schemes of dynamical decoupling have been proposed to achieve high-order suppression, both analytically and numerically. However, hitherto, there has not been a systematic framework to understand all existing uniform π -pulse dynamical decoupling schemes. In this report, we use the projection pulse sequences as basic building blocks and concatenation as a way to combine them. We derived a concatenated-projection dynamical decoupling, a framework in which we can systematically construct pulse sequences to achieve arbitrary high suppression order. All previously known uniform dynamical decoupling sequences using π pulse can be fit into this framework. Understanding uniform dynamical decoupling as successive projections on the Hamiltonian will also give insights on how to invent new ways to construct better pulse sequences.
Quantum computation with a complete graph of superconducting qubits has been recently proposed, and applications to amplitude amplification, phase estimation, and the simulation of realistic atomic collisions given [Phys. Rev. A 91, 062309 (2015)]. This single-excitation-subspace (SES) approach does not require error correction and is practical now. Previously it was shown how to implement symmetric n × n unitaries in a single step, but not general unitaries. Here we show that any element in the unitary group U(n) can be executed in no more than three steps, for any n. This enables the implementation of highly complex operations in constant time and, in some cases, even allows for the compilation of an entire algorithm down to only three operations. By using this protocol we show how to prepare any pure state of an SES chip in three steps and also how to compute, for a given SES state ρ, the expectation value Tr(ρO) of any n × n Hermitian observable O in a constant number of steps.
We provide analytical expressions for classical and total trace-norm (Schatten 1-norm) geometric correlations in the case of two-qubit X states. As an application, we consider the open-system dynamical behavior of such correlations under phase and generalized amplitude damping evolutions. Then, we show that geometric classical correlations can characterize the emergence of the pointer basis of an apparatus subject to decoherence in either Markovian or non-Markovian regimes. In particular, as a non-Markovian effect, we obtain a time delay for the information to be retrieved from the apparatus by a classical observer. Moreover, we show that the set of initial X states exhibiting sudden transitions in the geometric classical correlation has nonzero measure.
Since several years, the preparation and manipulation of a small number of quantum systems in a controlled and coherent way is feasible in many experiments. In fact, these experiments are nowadays commonly used for quantum simulation and quantum computation. As recently shown, such a system can, however, also be utilized to simulate specific behaviors of exponentially larger systems. That is, certain quantum computations can be performed by an exponentially smaller quantum computer. This compressed quantum computation can be employed to observe, for instance, the quantum phase transition of the one-dimensional (1D) XY model using very few qubits. We extend here this notion to simulate the behavior of thermal as well as excited states of the 1D XY model. In particular, we consider the 1D XY model of a spin chain of n qubits and derive a quantum circuit processing only log(n) qubits which simulates the original system. We demonstrate how the behavior of thermal as well as any eigenstate of the system can be efficiently simulated in this compressed fashion and present a quantum circuit on log(n) qubits to measure the magnetization, the number of kinks, and correlations occurring in the thermal as well as any excited state of the original systems. Moreover, we derive compressed circuits to study time evolutions.
We investigate entanglement and quantum phase transition in a two-dimensional Heisenberg anisotropic spin-1/2 XY model, using the quantum renormalization-group method (QRG) on a square lattice of N × N sites. The entanglement through geometric average of concurrences is calculated after each step of the QRG. We show that the concurrence achieves a nonzero value at the critical point more rapidly as compared to the one-dimensional case. The relationship between the entanglement and the quantum phase transition is studied. The evolution of entanglement develops two saturated values corresponding to two different phases. We compute the derivative of the concurrence, which is found to be discontinuous at the critical point γ = 0, and indicates a second-order phase transition in the spin system. Further, the scaling behavior of the system is investigated by computing the derivative of the concurrence in terms of the system size.
In this paper, we study the entanglement classification of the two-dimensional subspace spanned by n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) and W states under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). We show that for n 4 such a system can have infinite SLOCC inequivalent classes. Specifically, two states, |GHZ n + x|W n and |GHZ n + y|W n , from the subspace spanned by n-qubit |W n and |GHZ n are SLOCC equivalent if and only if ( x y ) n = 1.
We calculate interspecies Rydberg-Rydberg interaction strengths for the heavy alkali metals Rb and Cs. The presence of strong Förster resonances makes interspecies coupling a promising approach for long-range entanglement generation. We also provide an overview of the strongest Förster resonances for Rb-Rb and Cs-Cs using different principal quantum numbers for the two atoms. We show how interspecies coupling can be used for high fidelity quantum nondemolition state measurements with low cross-talk in qubit arrays.
We show how weak nonlinearities can be used in a device-independent quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol using generalized two-mode Schrödinger cat states. The QKD protocol is therefore shown to be secure against collective attacks and for some coherent attacks. We derive analytical formulas for the optimal values of the Bell parameter, the quantum bit error rate, and the device-independent secret key rate in the noiseless lossy bosonic channel. Additionally, we give the filters and measurements which achieve these optimal values. We find that, over any distance in this channel, the quantum bit error rate is identically zero, in principle, and the states in the protocol are always able to violate a Bell inequality. The protocol is found to be superior in some regimes to a device-independent QKD protocol based on polarization entangled states in a depolarizing channel. Finally, we propose an implementation for the optimal filters and measurements.
We propose a technique of a simultaneous excitation of disordered qubits providing an effective suppression of inhomogeneous broadening in their spectral density. The technique is based on applying of an optimally chosen π pulse with a smooth nonrectangular shape. We study excitation dynamics of an off-resonant qubit subjected to a strong classical electromagnetic driving field with a large reference frequency and slow envelope. Within this solution we optimize the envelope to achieve a preassigned accuracy in qubit synchronization.
We try to characterize the statistics of multipartite entanglement of the random states of an n-qubit system. Unable to solve the problem exactly we generalize it, replacing complex numbers with real vectors with N c components (the original problem is recovered for N c = 2). Studying the leading diagrams in the large-N c approximation, we unearth the presence of a phase transition and, in an explicit example, show that the so-called entanglement frustration disappears in the large-N c limit.
We present a different kind of monogamous relations based on concurrence and concurrence of assistance. For N -qubit systems ABC 1 . . . C N-2 , the monogamy relations satisfied by the concurrence of N -qubit pure states under the partition AB and C 1 . . . C N-2 , as well as under the partition ABC 1 and C 2 . . . C N-2 , are established, which gives rise to a kind of restrictions on the entanglement distribution and trade off among the subsystems.
By placing an atom into a cavity, the electromagnetic mode structure of the cavity is modified. In cavity QED, one manifestation of this phenomenon is the appearance of a gauge-dependent diamagnetic term, known as the A 2 contribution. Although in atomic cavity QED, the resulting modification in the eigenmodes is negligible, in recent superconducting circuit realizations, such corrections can be observable and may have qualitative implications. We revisit the canonical quantization procedure of a circuit-QED system consisting of a single superconducting transmon qubit coupled to a multimode superconducting microwave resonator. A complete derivation of the quantum Hamiltonian of an open circuit-QED system consisting of a transmon qubit coupled to a leaky transmission line cavity is presented. We introduce a complete set of modes that properly conserves the current in the entire structure and present a sum rule for the dipole transition matrix elements of a multilevel transmon qubit coupled to a multimode cavity. Finally, an effective multimode Rabi model is derived with coefficients that are given in terms of circuit parameters.
Relying on weak cross-Kerr nonlinearities, we propose a nearly deterministic generation scheme of the three-photon polarization-entangled perfect W state which can be applied to the perfect teleportation of an unknown single-photon state and has robust entanglement against the loss of one photon of them. Three photons entangle together by virtue of the bus function of the coherent state serving as the intermediate among them. In the scheme, three processes are executed successively and two kinds of modules are inserted into the circuit, where the homodyne measurement and the photon number measurement are aptly performed. By means of classical feedforward techniques, single-photon unitary transformation operations are performed on the corresponding photons based on the obtained measurement outcomes, by which the generation efficiency of the perfect W state aims to nearly unity. Moreover, some currently available optical elements are applied in the generation process, which offer facilities for the practical implementation.
We prove that the squared Rényi-α entanglement (SRαE), which is the generalization of entanglement of formation, obeys a general monogamy inequality in an arbitrary N -qubit mixed state. Furthermore, for a class of Rényi-α entanglement, we prove that the monogamy relations of the SRαE have a hierarchical structure when the N -qubit system is divided into k parties. As a by-product, the analytical relation between the Rényi-α entanglement and the squared concurrence is derived for bipartite 2 ⊗ d systems. Based on the monogamy properties of SRαE, we can construct the corresponding multipartite entanglement indicators, which still work well even when the indicators based on the squared concurrence and EOF lose their efficacy. In addition, the monogamy property of the μth power of Rényi-α entanglement is analyzed.
We study the entanglement Rényi α entropy (ERαE) as the measure of entanglement. Instead of a single quantity in standard entanglement quantification for a quantum state by using the von Neumann entropy for the well-accepted entanglement of formation (EoF), the ERαE gives a continuous spectrum parametrized by variable α as the entanglement measure, and it reduces to the standard EoF in the special case α → 1. The ERαE provides more information in entanglement quantification and can be used, for example, to determine the convertibility of entangled states by local operations and classical communication. A series of results is obtained: (i) we show that the ERαE of two states, which can be mixed or pure, may be incomparable, in contrast to the fact that there always exists an order for the EoF of two states; (ii) similar to the case of EoF, we study in a fully analytical way the ERαE for arbitrary two-qubit states, the Werner states, and isotropic states in the general d dimension; and (iii) we provide a proof of the previous conjecture for the analytical functional form of the EoF of isotropic states in the arbitrary d dimension.
We provide an analytical investigation of the pairwise entanglement dynamics for a system, consisting of an arbitrary number of qubits dissipating into a common and non-Markovian environment for both weak-and strong-coupling regimes. In the latter case, a revival of pairwise entanglement due to the memory depth of the environment is observed. The leakage of photons into a continuum state is assumed to be the source of dissipation. We show that for an initially Werner state, the environment washes out the pairwise entanglement, but a series of nonselective measurements can protect the relevant entanglement. On the other hand, by limiting the number of qubits initially in the superposition of single excitation, a stationary entanglement can be created between qubits initially in the excited and ground states. Finally, we determine the stationary distribution of the entanglement versus the total number of qubits in the system.
Two-party XOR games (correlation Bell inequalities with two outcomes per party) are the most studied Bell inequalities, and one of the few classes for which the optimal quantum value is known to be exactly calculable. We study a natural generalization of the binary XOR games to the class of linear games with d > 2 outcomes, and propose an easily computable bound on the quantum value of these games. Many interesting properties such as the impossibility of a quantum strategy to win these games, and the quantum bound on the CHSH game generalized to d outcomes are derived. We also use the proposed bound to prove a large-alphabet generalization of the principle of no quantum advantage in nonlocal computation, showing that quantum theory provides no advantage in the task of nonlocal distributed computation of a class of functions with d outcomes for prime d, while general no-signaling boxes do. This task is one of the information-theoretic principles attempting to characterize the set of quantum correlations from amongst general no-signaling ones.
We propose a scheme to generate macroscopic Schrödinger-cat states in a quantum harmonic oscillator (electromagnetic field or mechanical resonator) coupled to a quantum bit (two-level system) via a conditional displacement mechanism. By driving the qubit monochromatically, the oscillation of the qubit state modifies the effective frequency of the driving force acting on the oscillator, and a resonant or near-resonant driving on the oscillator can be achieved. The displacement of the oscillator is then significantly enhanced due to the small detuning of the driving force and can exceed that of the zero-point fluctuation. This effect can be used to prepare quantum superpositions of macroscopically distinct coherent states in the oscillator. We present detailed studies on this state-generation scheme in both the closed-and open-system cases. This approach can be implemented in various experimental platforms, such as cavity-or circuit-QED systems, electromechanical systems, and spin-cantilever systems.
The nonlocal properties of the W states are investigated under particle loss. By removing all but two particles from an N -qubit W state, the resulting two-qubit state is still entangled. Hence, the W state has high persistency of entanglement. We ask an analogous question regarding the persistency of nonlocality [see N. Brunner and T. Vértesi, Phys. Rev. A 86, 042113 (2012)]. Namely, we inquire what is the minimal number of particles that must be removed from the W state so that the resulting state becomes local. We bound this value in function of N qubits by considering Bell nonlocality tests with two alternative settings per site. In particular, we find that this value is between 2N/5 and N/2 for large N . We also develop a framework to establish bounds for more than two settings per site.
Usually, the three-tangle of a tripartite pure state of qubits can be directly measured with the simultaneous preparation of a not-less-than fourfold copy of the state. We show that the exact genuine tripartite entanglement for (2 ⊗ 2 ⊗ n)-dimensional pure quantum states can be measured in a similar manner, provided that only two simultaneous copies of the state are available. Lower bounds are also proposed for more convenient experimental operations. As an example, a comprehensive demonstration of the scheme is provided for the three-tangle of a three-qubit state.
In this work we develop a semianalytical variational Ansatz to study the properties of few-photon excitations interacting with a collection of quantum emitters in regimes that go beyond the rotating-wave approximation. This method can be used to approximate both the static and dynamical properties of a superconducting qubit in an open transmission line, including the spontaneous emission spectrum and the resonances in scattering experiments. The approximations are quantitatively accurate for rather strong couplings, as shown by a direct comparison to matrix-product-state numerical methods, and provide also a good qualitative description for stronger couplings well beyond the Markovian regime.
Motional ground state cooling and internal state preparation are important elements for quantum logic spectroscopy (QLS), a class of quantum information processing. Since QLS does not require the high gate fidelities usually associated with quantum computation and quantum simulation, it is possible to make simplifying choices in ion species and quantum protocols at the expense of some fidelity. Here, we report sideband cooling and motional state detection protocols for 138 Ba + of sufficient fidelity for QLS without an extremely narrow-band laser or the use of a species with hyperfine structure. We use the two S 1/2 Zeeman sublevels of 138 Ba + to Raman sideband cool a single ion to the motional ground state. Because of the small Zeeman splitting, continuous near-resonant Raman sideband cooling of 138 Ba + requires only the Doppler cooling lasers and two additional acousto-optic modulators. Observing the near-resonant Raman optical pumping fluorescence, we extract relevant experimental parameters and demonstrate a final average motional quantum number n 1. We additionally employ a second, far-off-resonant laser driving Raman π pulses between the two Zeeman sublevels to provide motional state detection for QLS and to confirm the sideband cooling efficiency, measuring a final n = 0.15(6) .
We analyze collective properties of N -qubit states. In particular, we exhaustively discuss the localization aspect of distributions in the measurement space and introduce the concept of Gaussian states in the macroscopic limit. The effect of local shifts on the localization and Gaussianity is analyzed.
In this paper, we study the monogamy inequality of Tsallis q-entropy entanglement. We first provide an analytic formula of Tsallis q-entropy entanglement in two-qubit systems for 5-
We investigate the possibility of achieving high-fidelity universal two-qubit gates by supplementing optimal tuning of individual qubits with dynamical decoupling (DD) of local 1/f noise. We consider simultaneous local pulse sequences applied during the gate operation and compare the efficiencies of periodic, Carr-Purcell, and Uhrig DD with hard π pulses along two directions (π z/y pulses). We present analytical perturbative results (Magnus expansion) in the quasistatic noise approximation combined with numerical simulations for realistic 1/f noise spectra. The gate efficiency is studied as a function of the gate duration, of the number n of pulses, and of the high-frequency roll-off. We find that the gate error is nonmonotonic in n, decreasing as n -α in the asymptotic limit, α 2, depending on the DD sequence. In this limit π z -Urhig is the most efficient scheme for quasistatic 1/f noise, but it is highly sensitive to the soft UV cutoff. For small number of pulses, π z control yields anti-Zeno behavior, whereas π y pulses minimize the error for a finite n. For the current noise figures in superconducting qubits, two-qubit gate errors ∼10 -6 , meeting the requirements for fault-tolerant quantum computation, can be achieved. The Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill sequence is the most efficient procedure, stable for 1/f noise with UV cutoff up to gigahertz.
We operationally introduce mixed quantum t-designs as the most general arbitrary-rank extension of projective quantum t-designs which preserves indistinguishability from the uniform distribution for t copies. First, we derive upper bounds on the classical communication capacity of any mixed t-design measurement for t ∈ [1,5]. Second, we explicitly compute the classical communication capacity of several mixed t-design measurements, including the depolarized version of any qubit and qutrit symmetric, informationally complete (SIC) measurement and complete mutually unbiased bases, the qubit icosahedral measurement, the Hoggar SIC measurement, any anti-SIC (where each element is proportional to the projector on the subspace orthogonal to one of the elements of the original SIC), and the uniform distribution over pure effects.
Four standard quantum optics models, that is, the Rabi, Dicke, Jaynes-Cummings, and Tavis-Cummings models, were proposed by physicists many decades ago. Despite their relative simple forms and many previous theoretical works, their physics at a finite N , especially inside the superradiant regime, remain unknown. In this work, by using the strong-coupling expansion and exact diagonalization (ED), we study the Z 2 -U(1) Dicke model with independent rotating-wave coupling g and counterrotating-wave coupling g at a finite N . This model includes the four standard quantum optics models as its various special limits. We show that in the superradiant phase, the system's energy levels are grouped into doublets with even and odd parity. Any anisotropy β = g /g = 1 leads to the oscillation of parities in both the ground and excited doublets as the atom-photon coupling strength increases. The oscillations will be pushed to the infinite coupling strength in the isotropic Z 2 limit β = 1. We find nearly perfect agreement between the strong-coupling expansion and the ED in the superradiant regime when β is not too small. We also compute the photon correlation functions, squeezing spectrum, and number correlation functions that can be measured by various standard optical techniques.
Multiqubit quantum gates are natural quantum operations derived from various decompositions of quantum evolutions. Recently, linear-depth quantum circuits were proposed for an arbitrary n-qubit Toffoli gate with ancillary qubits [M. Saeedi and M. Pedram, Phys. Rev. A 87, 062318 (2013)]. Their circuits are based on an equivalent representation of the NOT gate regardless of the global phase. However, we find that this equivalence cannot be extended to the controlled-NOT gate or the n-qubit Toffoli gate. By reevaluating their circuits, we argue that their linear-depth quantum circuits could realize the joint operations of an n-qubit Toffoli gate and an n-qubit phase-flip gate.
We provide a graphical description of the entanglement of pure-state multiparty systems based on an analogy between a bipartite purity analysis and the centroid of a collection of point masses. This description applies to quantum systems with N parties, each with an arbitrary number of (discrete) states. The case of N qubits is highlighted for simplicity. This geometric description illustrates some of the restrictions in the form of inequalities that apply to entanglement in multiparty systems.
We present a method to optimize qubit control parameters during error detection which is compatible with large-scale qubit arrays. We demonstrate our method to optimize single or two-qubit gates in parallel on a nine-qubit system. Additionally, we show how parameter drift can be compensated for during computation by inserting a frequency drift and using our method to remove it. We remove both drift on a single qubit and independent drifts on all qubits simultaneously. We believe this method will be useful in keeping error rates low on all physical qubits throughout the course of a computation. Our method is O(1) scalable to systems of arbitrary size, providing a path towards controlling the large numbers of qubits needed for a fault-tolerant quantum computer.
We investigate PT -symmetric quantum systems ultraweakly coupled to an environment. We find that such open systems evolve under PT -symmetric, purely dephasing and unital dynamics. The dynamical map describing the evolution is then determined explicitly using a quantum canonical transformation. Furthermore, we provide an explanation of why PT -symmetric dephasing-type interactions lead to a critical slowing down of decoherence. This effect is further exemplified with an experimentally relevant system, a PT -symmetric qubit easily realizable, e.g., in optical or microcavity experiments.
We propose an optimal 1 → 2 quantum cloning method based on the maximin principle by making full use of a priori information of amplitude and phase about the general cloned qubit input set, which is a simply connected region enclosed by a "longitude-latitude grid" on the Bloch sphere. Theoretically, the fidelity of the optimal quantum cloning machine derived from this method is the largest in terms of the maximin principle compared with that of any other machine. The problem solving is an optimization process that involves six unknown complex variables, six vectors in an uncertain-dimensional complex vector space, and four equality constraints. Moreover, by restricting the structure of the quantum cloning machine, the optimization problem is simplified as a three-real-parameter suboptimization problem with only one equality constraint. We obtain the explicit formula for a suboptimal quantum cloning machine. Additionally, the fidelity of our suboptimal quantum cloning machine is higher than or at least equal to that of universal quantum cloning machines and phase-covariant quantum cloning machines. It is also underlined that the suboptimal cloning machine outperforms the "belt quantum cloning machine" for some cases.
We study theoretically the responses of the dynamically corrected gates to time-dependent noises in the exchange-only spin-qubit system. We consider 1/f noises having spectra proportional to 1/ω α , where the exponent α indicates the strength of correlation within the noise. The quantum gate errors due to noises are extracted from a numerical simulation of randomized benchmarking and are compared between the application of uncorrected operations and that of dynamically corrected gates robust against the hyperfine noise. We have found that for α 1.5, the dynamically corrected gates offer a considerable reduction in the gate error and such a reduction is approximately two orders of magnitude for the experimentally relevant noise exponent. On the other hand, no improvement of the gate fidelity is provided for α 1.5. This critical value of α c ≈ 1.5 is larger than that for the cases for the singlet-triplet qubits. The filter transfer functions corresponding to the dynamically corrected gates are also computed and compared to those derived from uncorrected pulses. Our results suggest that the dynamically corrected gates are useful measures to suppress the hyperfine noise when operating the exchange-only qubits.
We present the realization of a Stückelberg interferometer with two mechanical modes in a two-coupledcantilever-based optomechanical system. By optically tuning the frequency of one cantilever inside a cavity, we show that nonadiabatic crossing of the mechanical modes twice creates the interference fringes of the mechanical oscillations as a result of coherent splitting and subsequent recombination of the oscillations. By measuring the nonadiabatic phase acquired at the transition, we unveil an in-depth analog between the two-mode and quantum two-level systems. With this interferometry-based technique, transferring of oscillation between spatially separated cantilevers is achieved with 97% efficiency.
In this paper, we propose a protocol to prepare W states with superconducting quantum interference devices by using dressed states. Through choosing a set of dressed states suitably, the protocol can be used to accelerate the adiabatic passages while additional couplings are unnecessary. Moreover, we can optimize the evolution of the system with the restraint to the populations of the intermediate states by choosing suitable control parameters. Numerical simulations show that the protocol is robust against the parameter variations and decoherence mechanisms. Furthermore, the protocol is faster and more robust against the dephasing compared with that by the adiabatic passages. As for the Rabi frequencies of pulses designed by the method, they can be expressed by the linear superpositions of Gaussian functions, which does not increase difficulty in the experiments. In addition, the protocol could be controlled and manipulated easily in experiments with a circuit quantum electrodynamics system.
Given an arbitrary 2 w × 2 w unitary matrix U , a powerful matrix decomposition can be applied, leading to four different syntheses of a w-qubit quantum circuit performing the unitary transformation. The demonstration is based on a recent theorem by H. Führ and Z. Rzeszotnik [Linear Algebra Its Appl. 484, 86 (2015)] generalizing the scaling of single-bit unitary gates (w = 1) to gates with arbitrary value of w. The synthesized circuit consists of controlled one-qubit gates, such as NEGATOR gates and PHASOR gates. Interestingly, the approach reduces to a known synthesis method for classical logic circuits consisting of controlled NOT gates in the case that U is a permutation matrix.
The prospect of quantum-simulating lattice gauge theories opens exciting possibilities for understanding fundamental forms of matter. Here, we show that trapped ions represent a promising platform in this context when simultaneously exploiting internal pseudospins and external phonon vibrations. We illustrate our ideas with two complementary proposals for simulating lattice-regularized quantum electrodynamics (QED) in (1 + 1) space-time dimensions. The first scheme replaces the gauge fields by local vibrations with a high occupation number. By numerical finite-size scaling, we demonstrate that this model recovers Wilson's lattice gauge theory in a controlled way. Its implementation can be scaled up to tens of ions in an array of microtraps. The second scheme represents the gauge fields by spins 1 2 , and thus simulates a quantum link model. As we show, this allows the fermionic matter to be replaced by bosonic degrees of freedom, permitting small-scale implementations in a linear Paul trap. Both schemes work on energy scales significantly larger than typical decoherence rates in experiments, thus enabling the investigation of phenomena such as string breaking, Coleman's quantum phase transition, and false-vacuum decay. The underlying ideas of the proposed analog simulation schemes may also be adapted to other platforms, such as superconducting qubits.
Quantum metrology with entangled states in realistic noisy environments always suffers from decoherence. Therefore, the measurement precision is greatly reduced. Here we applied the dynamical decoupling method to protect the N -qubit quantum metrology protocol and successfully revived the scaling of the measurement precision as N -k with k ∈ [5/6,11/12]. The degree of the precision revival, as determined by the noise spectrum distribution, indicates that the performance of the protected protocol can be further improved by controlling the noise spectrum. Such a protected protocol is proved to be universal for entanglement-based quantum metrology in the pure dephasing and relaxation noise, which should stimulate the development of practical quantum metrology for weak signal detection of microscopic physics.
We propose schemes of controlled-Z and controlled-NOT gates with ultracold neutral atoms based on deterministic phase accumulation during double adiabatic passage of the Stark-tuned Förster resonance of Rydberg states. The effect of deterministic phase accumulation during double adiabatic passage in a two-level quantum system has been analyzed in detail. Adiabatic rapid passage using nonlinearly chirped pulses with rectangle intensity profile has been discussed. Nonlinear time dependence of the energy detuning from the Förster resonance is used to achieve a high fidelity of population transfer between Rydberg states. Fidelity of two-qubit gates has been studied with an example of the 90S + 96S → 90P + 95P Stark-tuned Förster resonance in Cs Rydberg atoms.
Fusion technique plays a key role in the preparation of large-scale W states, but the currently existing fusion schemes are suffering from the qubit loss problem, i.e., the number of the output entangled qubits is smaller than the sum of numbers of the input entangled qubits, which will inevitably decrease the fusion efficiency and increase the number of fusion steps as well as the requirement of quantum memories. In this paper, we design a fusion mechanism to fuse two small-size W states into a large-scale W state without qubit loss, and thus we call it qubit-loss-free (QLF) fusion mechanism. This QLF fusion mechanism is based on a two-outcome positive-operator valued measurement on two qubits extracting from two small-size W states, and works for both pure and mixed W states. The QLF nature of this fusion mechanism clearly increases the final size of the obtained W state, and greatly reduces the number of fusion steps as well as the requirement of quantum memories required to achieve a W state of a target size, so it is more efficient and feasible than the currently existing fusion schemes. There is no complete failure output in our QLF fusion scheme, and all the garbage states are recyclable. Two example schemes are proposed to realize this QLF fusion mechanism in a cavity quantum electrodynamics system and three-qubit Heisenberg XYZ model, respectively, which demonstrates the possibility of the physical realization of this QLF fusion mechanism.
The performance of open-system quantum annealing is adversely affected by thermal excitations out of the ground state. While the presence of energy gaps between the ground and excited states suppresses such excitations, error correction techniques are required to ensure full scalability of quantum annealing. Quantum annealing correction (QAC) is a method that aims to improve the performance of quantum annealers when control over only the problem (final) Hamiltonian is possible, along with decoding. Building on our earlier work [S.  Matsuura et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 116, 220501 (2016)], we study QAC using analytical tools of statistical physics by considering the effects of temperature and a transverse field on the penalty qubits in the ferromagnetic p-body infinite-range transverse-field Ising model. We analyze the effect of QAC on second (p = 2) and first (p 3) order phase transitions, and construct the phase diagram as a function of temperature and penalty strength. Our analysis reveals that for sufficiently low temperatures and in the absence of a transverse field on the penalty qubit, QAC breaks up a single, large free-energy barrier into multiple smaller ones. We find theoretical evidence for an optimal penalty strength in the case of a transverse field on the penalty qubit, a feature observed in QAC experiments. Our results provide further compelling evidence that QAC provides an advantage over unencoded quantum annealing.
We review a time-dependent version of the Schrieffer-Wolff transformation that accounts for real-time control of system parameters, soon to be rendered possible on a broad basis due to technical progress. The dispersive regime of N multilevel systems coupled to a cavity via a Jaynes-Cummings interaction is extended to the most general case. As a concrete example we rigorously apply the technique to dispersive two-qubit gates in a superconducting architecture, showing that fidelities based on previous models are off by up to 10 -2 , which is certainly relevant for high-fidelity gates compatible with fault-tolerant quantum information devices. A closed analytic form for the error depending on the target evolution closes our work.
Individual addressing of qubits is essential for scalable quantum computation. Spatial addressing allows unlimited numbers of qubits to share the same frequency, while enabling arbitrary parallel operations. We demonstrate addressing of long-lived 43 Ca + "atomic clock" qubits held in separate zones (960 μm apart) of a microfabricated surface trap with integrated microwave electrodes. Such zones could form part of a "quantum charge-coupled device" architecture for a large-scale quantum information processor. By coherently canceling the microwave field in one zone we measure a ratio of Rabi frequencies between addressed and nonaddressed qubits of up to 1400, from which we calculate a spin-flip probability on the qubit transition of the nonaddressed ion of 1.3 × 10 -6 . Off-resonant excitation then becomes the dominant error process, at around 5 × 10 -3 . It can be prevented either by working at higher magnetic field, or by polarization control of the microwave field. We implement polarization control with error 2 × 10 -5 , which would suffice to suppress off-resonant excitation to the ∼10 -9 level if combined with spatial addressing. Such polarization control could also enable fast microwave operations.
We develop a systematic coarse-graining procedure for systems of N qubits. We exploit the underlying geometrical structures of the associated discrete phase space to produce a coarse-grained version with reduced effective size. Our coarse-grained spaces inherit key properties of the original ones. In particular, our procedure naturally yields a subset of the original measurement operators, which can be used to construct a coarse discrete Wigner function. These operators also constitute a systematic choice of incomplete measurements for the tomographer wishing to probe an intractably large system.
We analyze entanglement and nonlocal properties of the convex set of symmetric N -qubit states which are diagonal in the Dicke basis. First, we demonstrate that within this set, semidefinite positivity of partial transposition (PPT) is necessary and sufficient for separability-which has also been reported recently by Yu [Phys. Rev. A 94, 060101(R) ( 
Chained inequalities involving pairwise correlations of qubit observables in the equatorial plane are constructed based on the positivity of a sequence of moment matrices. When a jointly measurable set of positive-operatorvalued measures (POVMs) is employed in the first measurement of every pair of sequential measurements, the chained pairwise correlations do not violate the classical bound imposed by the moment matrix positivity. We find that incompatibility of the set of POVMs employed in first measurements is only necessary, but not sufficient, in general, for the violation of the inequality. On the other hand, there exists a one-to-one equivalence between the degree of incompatibility (which quantifies the joint measurability) of the equatorial qubit POVMs and the optimal violation of a nonlocal steering inequality, proposed by Jones and Wiseman [S. J. Jones and H. M. Wiseman, Phys. Rev. A 84, 012110 ( 
In Sec. IV it was claimed that T t could be approximated via a finite sequence of quantum channels T
Arbitrary rotation of a qubit can be performed with a three-pulse sequence, for example, ZY Z rotations. However, this requires precise control of the relative phase and timing between the pulses, making it technically challenging in optical implementation in a short time scale. Here we show any ZY Z rotations can be implemented with a single laser pulse, that is, a chirped pulse with a temporal hole. The hole of this shaped pulse induces a nonadiabatic interaction in the middle of the adiabatic evolution of the chirped pulse, converting the central part of an otherwise simple Z rotation to a Y rotation, constructing ZY Z rotations. The result of our experiment performed with shaped femtosecond laser pulses and cold rubidium atoms shows strong agreement with the theory.
Currently, epsilon-near-zero (ENZ) materials have become important for controlling the propagation of light and enhancing by several orders of magnitude the Kerr and other nonlinearities. Given this advance it is important to examine the quantum electrodynamic processes and information tasks near ENZ materials. We study the entanglement between two two-level systems near ENZ materials and compare our results with the case where the ENZ material is replaced by a metal. It is shown that with ENZ materials substantial entanglement can be achieved over larger distances than for metal films. We show that this entanglement over large distances is due to the fact that one can not only have large emission rates but also large energy transmission rates at the epsilon-near-zero wavelength. This establishes the superiority of ENZ materials for studying processes specifically important for quantum information tasks.
In quantum information, W states are a central class of multipartite entangled states because of their robustness against noise and their use in many quantum processes. Their generation, however, remains a demanding task whose difficulty increases with the number of particles. We report a simple scalable conceptual scheme where a single particle in an ancilla mode works as an entanglement catalyst of the W state for other N separated identical particles. A crucial aspect of the scheme, which exploits basically spatial indistinguishability, is its universality, being applicable without essential changes to both bosons and fermions. Our proposal represents a paradigm within the experimental preparation of many-particle entanglement based on quantum indistinguishability.
The study of N -qubit mixed symmetric separable states is a longstanding challenging problem as no unique separability criterion exists. In this regard, we take up the N -qubit mixed symmetric separable states for a detailed study as these states are of experimental importance and offer an elegant mathematical analysis since the dimension of the Hilbert space is reduced from 2 N to N + 1. Since there exists a one-to-one correspondence between the spin-j system and an N -qubit symmetric state, we employ Fano statistical tensor parameters for the parametrization of the spin-density matrix. Further, we use a geometric multiaxial representation (MAR) of the density matrix to characterize the mixed symmetric separable states. Since the separability problem is NP-hard, we choose to study it in the continuum limit where mixed symmetric separable states are characterized by the P -distribution function λ(θ,φ). We show that the N -qubit mixed symmetric separable states can be visualized as a uniaxial system if the distribution function is independent of θ and φ. We further choose a distribution function to be the most general positive function on a sphere and observe that the statistical tensor parameters characterizing the N -qubit symmetric system are the expansion coefficients of the distribution function. As an example for the discrete case, we investigate the MAR of a uniformly weighted two-qubit mixed symmetric separable state. We also observe that there exists a correspondence between the separability and classicality of states.
For superconducting qubits, microwave pulses drive rotations around the Bloch sphere. The phase of these drives can be used to generate zero-duration arbitrary virtual Z gates, which, combined with two X π/2 gates, can generate any SU(2) gate. Here we show how to best utilize these virtual Z gates to both improve algorithms and correct pulse errors. We perform randomized benchmarking using a Clifford set of Hadamard and Z gates and show that the error per Clifford is reduced versus a set consisting of standard finite-duration X and Y gates. Z gates can correct unitary rotation errors for weakly anharmonic qubits as an alternative to pulse-shaping techniques such as derivative removal by adiabatic gate (DRAG). We investigate leakage and show that a combination of DRAG pulse shaping to minimize leakage and Z gates to correct rotation errors realizes a 13.3 ns X π/2 gate characterized by low error [1.95(3) × 10 -4 ] and low leakage [3.1(6) × 10 -6 ]. Ultimately leakage is limited by the finite temperature of the qubit, but this limit is two orders of magnitude smaller than pulse errors due to decoherence.
We compute the entanglement between the electronic and vibrational motions in the simplest molecular system, the hydrogen molecular ion, considering the molecule as a bipartite system, electron and vibrational motion. For that purpose we compute an accurate total non-Born-Oppenheimer wave function in terms of a huge expansion using nonorthogonal B-spline basis sets that expand separately the electronic and nuclear wave functions. According to the Schmidt decomposition theorem for bipartite systems, widely used in quantum-information theory, it is possible to find a much shorter but equivalent expansion in terms of the natural orbitals or Schmidt bases for the electronic and nuclear half spaces. Here we extend the Schmidt decomposition theorem to the case in which nonorthogonal bases are used to span the partitioned Hilbert spaces. This extension is first illustrated with two simple coupled systems, the former without an exact solution and the latter exactly solvable. In these model systems of distinguishable coupled particles it is shown that the entanglement content does not increase monotonically with the excitation energy, but only within the manifold of states that belong to an existing excitation mode, if any. In the hydrogen molecular ion the entanglement content for each non-Born-Oppenheimer vibronic state is quantified through the von Neumann and linear entropies and we show that entanglement serves as a witness to distinguish vibronic states related to different Born-Oppenheimer molecular energy curves or electronic excitation modes.
We investigate genuinely entangled N -qubit states with no N -partite correlations in the case of symmetric states. Using a tensor representation for mixed symmetric states, we obtain a simple characterization of the absence of N -partite correlations. We show that symmetric states with no N -partite correlations cannot exist for an even number of qubits. We fully identify the set of genuinely entangled symmetric states with no N -partite correlations in the case of three qubits, and in the case of rank-2 states. We present a general procedure to construct families for an arbitrary odd number of qubits.
In the present paper we analyze in detail several properties of the MgH -anion and the MgH neutral molecule using accurate ab initio quantum computational methods in order to establish with a higher reliability specific molecular features like the gas-phase electron affinity, the Franck-Condon factors for excitation of the neutral and of its anion to their lower electronic states, and the general feasibility of employing the anion in photodetachment experiments after its confinement in cold ion traps. The calculations suggest that the electron affinity value is in agreement with an existing early experiment and, further, places on it an error bar smaller than that given before. Accurate zero-point-energy corrections are also included in our calculations and their effects discussed.
We examine coherent population trapping in a circuit-QED system consisting of an Al/AlO x /Al transmon qubit embedded in an Al three-dimensional cavity. By engineering the dissipation rate of the cavity to be much larger than that of the qubit and continuously pumping a two-photon process to an excited state of the cavity-qubit system, we are able to invert the population into the qubit excited state with a fidelity of 94%. Applying a second continuous drive tone at the dressed cavity frequency forms an effective system and enables us to coherently trap the system in a dark state formed from a superposition of the excited and ground states of the qubit. By performing quantum state tomography we demonstrate that the position of the dark state on the Bloch sphere can be controlled by changing the relative amplitudes and phases of the two drives.
The universal programmable discriminator is a device for discrimination between unknown quantum states. It has two kinds of registers: the program register and the data register. The states that are stored in registers are all unknown. It is assured that the data state is identical with one of the program states with the certain probability. The aim is to optimally identify the state stored in the data register with one of the program states that it is done by discriminating between unknown states of the combined system contains program and data registers. We design an optimal universal unambiguous programmable discriminator that has N qubit systems in the program register, to unambiguously identify the qubit state of data with one of N program qubit states. All unknown qubit states are pure and N D copies of the data state are available. We determine the optimal positive-operator valued measure (POVM) elements in two different ways. First, we find optimal POVMs that maximize the average of the overall success probability of discrimination between N unknown pure states of the combined system. In another way, the problem of discrimination between N unknown pure states of the combined system is reduced to discrimination between N known average mixed states. It is shown that theses two different ways lead to the same results. We show that at least N -1 copies of the data state are necessary for discriminating between N unknown states of the combined system.
We show that the distillable coherence-which is equal to the relative entropy of coherence-is, up to a constant factor, always bounded by the 1 -norm measure of coherence (defined as the sum of absolute values of off diagonals). Thus the latter plays a similar role as logarithmic negativity plays in entanglement theory and this is the best operational interpretation from a resource-theoretic viewpoint. Consequently the two measures are intimately connected to another operational measure, the robustness of coherence. We find also relationships between these measures, which are tight for general states, and the tightest possible for pure and qubit states. For a given robustness, we construct a state having minimum distillable coherence.
We report an experimental determination of the ground-state hyperfine constant A of the 25 Mg + ions by measuring the |S 1/2 ,F = 2,m = 0 to |S 1/2 ,F = 3,m = 0 transition (0-0 transition) frequency of the two groundstate hyperfine energy levels. The frequency is measured by rf resonant method in a Paul trap under a magnetic field of about 0.1 mT. The result is A = -596.254 248 7(42) MHz. Different frequency shifts and uncertainties are evaluated. The main effect is quadratic Zeeman shift. Since the Paul trap is driven by rf on the electrodes, ac magnetic field can be induced by the rf at the site of the ion. The ac magnetic field causes quadratic Zeeman shift for ion frequency standards and also reduces the coherence time when the ion acts as a quantum bit. Precision measurement of this ac magnetic field can help evaluating the related uncertainty when a single-ion optical clock is established on the trap.
Experiments with ultracold atoms provide a highly controllable laboratory setting with many unique opportunities for precision exploration of quantum many-body phenomena. The nature of such systems, with strong interaction and quantum entanglement, makes reliable theoretical calculations challenging. Especially difficult are excitation and dynamical properties, which are often the most directly relevant to experiment. We carry out exact numerical calculations, by Monte Carlo sampling of imaginary-time propagation of Slater determinants, to compute the pairing gap in the two-dimensional Fermi gas from first principles. Applying state-of-the-art analytic continuation techniques, we obtain the spectral function and the density and spin structure factors providing unique tools to visualize the BEC-BCS crossover. These quantities will allow for a direct comparison with experiments.
Measurement-based quantum computation describes a scheme where entanglement of resource states is utilized to simulate arbitrary quantum gates via local measurements. Recent works suggest that symmetry-protected topologically nontrivial, short-ranged entangled states are promising candidates for such a resource. Miller and Miyake [npj Quantum Inf. 2, 16036 ( 
Quantum emitters interacting through a waveguide setup have been proposed as a promising platform for basic research on light-matter interactions and quantum information processing. We propose to augment waveguide setups with the use of multiport devices. Specifically, we demonstrate theoretically the possibility of exciting N -qubit subradiant, maximally entangled, states with the use of suitably designed N -port devices. Our general methodology is then applied based on two different devices: an epsilon-and-mu-near-zero waveguide hub and a nonreciprocal circulator. A sensitivity analysis is carried out to assess the robustness of the system against a number of nonidealities. These findings link and merge the designs of devices for quantum state engineering with classical communication network methodologies.
Grid (or comb) states are an interesting class of bosonic states introduced by Gottesman, Kitaev
Quantum coherence plays a central role in various research areas. The l 1 -norm of coherence is one of the most important coherence measures that are easily computable, but it is not easy to find a simple interpretation. We show that the l 1 -norm of coherence is uniquely characterized by a few simple axioms, which demonstrates in a precise sense that it is the analog of negativity in entanglement theory and sum negativity in the resource theory of magic-state quantum computation. We also provide an operational interpretation of the l 1 -norm of coherence as the maximum entanglement, measured by the negativity, produced by incoherent operations acting on the system and an incoherent ancilla. To achieve this goal, we clarify the relation between the l 1 -norm of coherence and negativity for all bipartite states, which leads to an interesting generalization of maximally correlated states. Surprisingly, all entangled states thus obtained are distillable. Moreover, their entanglement cost and distillable entanglement can be computed explicitly for a qubit-qudit system.
with an error in the text on page 9. On page 9, in Sec. VI C, right-hand column, the sixteenth line of the second paragraph should read as "surface code magic-state factory of 6.3 million "data qubits" if the infidelity of operations on physical qubits is 10 -4 . This is based on the cost of d 2 physical qubits to store the information in the rotated lattice surface code [29]. However, for many architectures this number must be doubled to provide ancillas responsible for syndrome extraction. In this case the physical qubit overhead would be ∼13 million.
High-fidelity entangled Bell states are of great interest in quantum physics. Entanglement of ultracold neutral atoms in two spatially separated optical dipole traps is promising for implementation of quantum computing and quantum simulation and for investigation of Bell states of material objects. We propose a method to entangle two atoms via long-range Rydberg-Rydberg interaction. Alternative to previous approaches, based on Rydberg blockade, we consider radio-frequency-assisted Stark-tuned Förster resonances in Rb Rydberg atoms. To reduce the sensitivity of the fidelity of Bell states to the fluctuations of interatomic distance, we propose to use the double adiabatic passage across the radio-frequency-assisted Stark-tuned Förster resonances, which results in a deterministic phase shift of the collective two-atom state.
Many systems used for quantum computing possess additional states beyond those defining the qubit. Leakage out of the qubit subspace must be considered when designing quantum error correction codes. Here we consider trapped ion qubits manipulated by Raman transitions. Zeeman qubits do not suffer from leakage errors but are sensitive to magnetic fields to first order. Hyperfine qubits can be encoded in clock states that are insensitive to magnetic fields to first order, but spontaneous scattering during the Raman transition can lead to leakage. Here we compare a Zeeman qubit ( 174 Yb + ) to a hyperfine qubit ( 171 Yb + ) in the context of the surface code. We find that the number of physical qubits required to reach a specific logical qubit error can be reduced by using 174 Yb + if the magnetic field can be stabilized with fluctuations smaller than 10 μG.
We demonstrate subpicosecond-timescale population transfer between the pair of hyperfine ground states of atomic rubidium using a single laser-pulse. Our scheme utilizes the geometric and dynamic phases induced during Rabi oscillation through the fine-structure excited state to construct an X rotation gate for the hyperfine-state qubit system. The experiment performed with a femtosecond laser and cold rubidium atoms, in a magnetooptical trap, shows over 98% maximal population transfer between the clock states.
A parity-time (PT )-symmetric system emerging from a quantum dynamics is highly desirable in order to understand the possible implications of PT symmetry in the next generation of quantum technologies. In this work, we address this need by proposing and studying a circuit-QED architecture that consists of two coupled resonators and two qubits (each coupled to one resonator). By means of external driving fields on the qubits, we are able to tune gains and losses in the resonators. Starting with the quantum dynamics of this system, we show the emergence of the PT symmetry via the selection of both driving amplitudes and frequencies. We engineer the system such that a non-number-conserving dipole-dipole interaction emerges, introducing an instability at large coupling strengths. The PT symmetry and its breaking, as well as the predicted instability in this circuit-QED system, can be observed in a transmission experiment.
Equation ( 
In quantum algorithms discovered so far for simulating scattering processes in quantum field theories, state preparation is the slowest step. We present an algorithm for preparing particle states to use in simulation of fermionic quantum field theory (QFT) on a quantum computer, which is based on the matrix product state ansatz. We apply this to the massive Gross-Neveu model in one spatial dimension to illustrate the algorithm, but we believe the same algorithm with slight modifications can be used to simulate any one-dimensional massive fermionic QFT. In the case where the number of particle species is 1, our algorithm can prepare particle states using O( -3.23... ) gates, which is much faster than previous known results, namely, O( -8-o(1) ). Furthermore, unlike previous methods which were based on adiabatic state preparation, the method given here should be able to simulate quantum phases unconnected to the free theory.
An arbitrary qubit can be transmitted through a spin chain by perturbatively coupling both communicating parties to it. These so-called weak-coupling models rely on effective Rabi oscillations between the outer spins, yielding nearly maximum fidelity while offering great resilience against disorder with the cost of having long transfer times. Considering that framework, here we address a one-dimensional nonsymmetric channel connecting two spins, one placed at each end of it. Given any pattern of nearest-neighbor coupling strengths, we obtain an analytical expression that accounts for the effective long-range interaction between them and study the interplay between transfer time and fidelity. Furthermore, we show that homogeneous channels provide the best speedfidelity tradeoff.
In quantum algorithms discovered so far for simulating scattering processes in quantum field theories, state preparation is the slowest step. We present an algorithm for preparing particle states to use in simulation of fermionic quantum field theory (QFT) on a quantum computer, which is based on the matrix product state ansatz. We apply this to the massive Gross-Neveu model in one spatial dimension to illustrate the algorithm, but we believe the same algorithm with slight modifications can be used to simulate any one-dimensional massive fermionic QFT. In the case where the number of particle species is 1, our algorithm can prepare particle states using O( -3.23... ) gates, which is much faster than previous known results, namely, O( -8-o(1) ). Furthermore, unlike previous methods which were based on adiabatic state preparation, the method given here should be able to simulate quantum phases unconnected to the free theory.
Reverse annealing is a variant of quantum annealing that starts from a given classical configuration of spins (qubits). In contrast to the conventional formulation, where one starts from a uniform superposition of all possible states (classical configurations), quantum fluctuations are first increased and only then decreased. One then reads out the state as a proposed solution to the given combinatorial optimization problem. We formulate a mean-field theory of reverse annealing using the fully connected ferromagnetic p-spin model, with and without random longitudinal fields, and analyze it in order to understand how and when reverse annealing is effective at solving this problem. We find that the difficulty arising from the existence of a first-order quantum phase transition, which leads to an exponentially long computation time in conventional quantum annealing, is circumvented in the context of this particular problem by reverse annealing if the proximity of the initial state to the (known) solution exceeds a threshold. Even when a first-order transition is unavoidable, the difficulty is mitigated due to a smaller jump in the order parameter at a first-order transition, which implies a larger rate of quantum tunneling. Reverse annealing has not been studied analytically before, and this study paves the way toward a systematic understanding of this relatively unexplored protocol in a broader context.
The superconducting fluxonium circuit is an artificial atom with a strongly anharmonic spectrum: When biased at a half flux quantum, the lowest qubit transition is an order of magnitude smaller in frequency than those to higher levels. Similar to conventional atomic systems, such a frequency separation between the computational and noncomputational subspaces allows independent optimizations of the qubit coherence and two-qubit interactions. Here, we describe a controlled-Z gate for two fluxoniums connected either capacitively or inductively, with qubit transitions fixed near 500 MHz. The gate is activated by a microwave drive at a resonance involving the second excited state. We estimate intrinsic gate fidelities over 99.9% with gate times below 100 ns.
We study single-qutrit gates composed of Clifford and T gates, using the qutrit version of the T gate proposed by Howard and Vala [M. Howard and J. Vala
We introduce entanglement purification protocols for d-level systems (qudits) with improved efficiency as compared to previous protocols. While we focus on protocols for bipartite systems, we also propose generalizations to multipartite qudit systems. The schemes we introduce include recurrence protocols that operate on two copies, as well as hashing protocols that operate on large ensembles. We analyze properties of the protocols with respect to minimal required fidelity and yield, and study their performance in the presence of noise and imperfections. We determine error thresholds and study the dependence on local dimension. We find that our schemes do not only outperform previous approaches, but also show an improved robustness and better efficiency with increasing dimension. While error thresholds for different system sizes are not directly comparable, our results nevertheless suggest that quantum information processing using qudits, in particular for long-distance quantum communication, may offer an advantage over approaches based on qubit systems.
We propose a scheme of fast three-qubit Toffoli quantum gate for ultracold neutral-atom qubits. The scheme is based on Stark-tuned three-body Förster resonances, which we have observed in our recent experiment [D. B.  Tretyakov et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 119, 173402 (2017)]. The three-body resonance corresponds to a transition when the three interacting atoms change their states simultaneously, and it occurs at a different dc electric field with respect to the two-body Förster resonance. A combined effect of three-body and two-body Förster interactions in external electric and magnetic fields near the three-body resonance results in complex coherent behavior of the populations and phases of collective states of a three-atom system. We have found that it is possible to obtain experimental conditions suitable to implement three-qubit Toffoli gate with 98.3% fidelity and less than 3 μs duration.
We single out a class of states possessing only the three-tangle but distributed all over four qubits. This is a three-site analog of states from the W class. The latter possess exclusively globally distributed pairwise entanglement as measured by the concurrence. We perform an analysis for four qubits, showing that such a state indeed exists. To this end we analyze specific states of four qubits for which all possible SL invariants vanish, and hence which are part of the SL null cone. Instead, they will possess a certain unitary invariant. In analyzing the three-tangle of rank-two reduced density matrices of these states, we manage to show that in this particular case we reach the convex roof exactly. As an interesting by-product this solution is extended in the rank-two case to a homogeneous polynomial SL-invariant measure of entanglement of degree 2m, if there are two states which correspond to an at most n-fold degenerate solution in the zero polytope for 0 < n < m that can be combined with the convexified minimal characteristic curve at an (2mn)-fold zero yielding a decomposition of ρ. If more than one such state does exist in the zero polytope, a minimization must be performed. If no decomposition of ρ is obtained in this way, it provides a better lower bound than the lowest convexified curve.
In this paper, we propose a scheme to implement the two-qubit controlled-Z gate via the Stark-tuned Förster interaction of Rydberg atoms, where the Förster defect is driven by a time-dependent electric field of a simple sinusoidal function while the matrix elements of the dipole-dipole interaction are time independent. It is shown that when the system is initially in a specific state, it makes a cyclic evolution after a preset interaction time, returning to the initial state, but picks up a phase, which can be used for realizing a two-atom controlled-Z gate. Due to the interference of sequential Landau-Zener transitions, the population and phase of the state is quasideterministic after the cyclic evolution and therefore the gate fidelity is insensitive to fluctuations of the interaction time and the dipole-dipole matrix elements. Feasibility of the scheme realized with Cs atoms is discussed in detail, which shows that the two-qubit gate via Landau-Zener control can be realized with the state-of-the-art experimental setup.
The efficient simulation of correlated quantum systems is a promising near-term application of quantum computers. Here, we present a measurement of the second Rényi entropy of the ground state of the two-site Fermi-Hubbard model on a five-qubit programmable quantum computer based on trapped ions. Our work illustrates the extraction of a nonlinear characteristic of a quantum state using a controlled-swap gate acting on two copies of the state. This scalable measurement of entanglement on a universal quantum computer will, with more qubits, provide insights into many-body quantum systems that are impossible to simulate on classical computers.
We have observed recently the Stark-tuned three-body Förster resonances 3 × nP 3/2 (|M|) → nS 1/2 + (n + 1)S 1/2 + nP 3/2 (|M * |) at long-range interactions of a few cold Rb Rydberg atoms [D. B. Tretyakov et al.,  Phys. Rev. Lett. 119, 173402 (2017)]. The three-body resonance appears at a different dc electric field with respect to the ordinary two-body resonance 2 × nP 3/2 (|M|) → nS 1/2 + (n + 1)S 1/2 and corresponds to a transition when the three interacting atoms change their states simultaneously (two atoms go to the S states, and the third atom remains in the P state but changes its moment projection), with the negligible contribution of the two-body resonance to the population transfer. It thus has a Borromean character and represents an effective three-body operator, which can be used to directly control the three-body interactions in quantum simulations and quantum gates implemented with Rydberg atoms. In this paper we theoretically investigate the coherence of such three-body resonances and we show that high-contrast Rabi-like population oscillations are possible for the localized Rydberg atoms in a certain spatial configuration. This paves the way to implementing three-qubit quantum gates and quantum simulations based on three-body Rydberg interactions.
We would like to correct some inaccuracies and omissions in our article.
Using a Bayesian methodology, we introduce the maximum a posteriori probability (MAP) estimator for quantum state and process tomography. We show that the maximum likelihood, the hedged maximum likelihood, and the maximum likelihood-maximum entropy estimator, and estimators of this general type, can be viewed as special cases of the MAP estimator. The MAP, like the Bayes mean estimator, includes prior knowledge. For cases of interest to tomography MAP can take advantage of convex optimization tools, making it numerically tractable. We show how the MAP and other Bayesian quantum state estimators can be corrected for noise produced if the quantum state passes through a noisy quantum channel prior to measurement. Numerical simulations on a single qubit indicate that, on average, including these corrections significantly improves the estimate even when the measurement data are modestly large.
For multipartite states, we consider a notion of D symmetry. For a system of N qubits, it coincides with the usual permutational symmetry. In the case of N qudits (d 3), the D symmetry is stronger than the permutational one. For the space of all D-symmetric vectors in (C d ) ⊗N , we define a basis composed of vectors {|R N,d;k : 0 k N (d -1)} which are analogs of Dicke states. The aim of this paper is to discuss the problem of separability of D-symmetric states which are diagonal in the basis {|R N,d;k }. We show that if N is even and d 2 is arbitrary then a positive partial transposition property is a necessary and sufficient condition of separability for D-invariant diagonal states. In this way, we generalize results obtained by Yu [Phys. Rev.
We examine the performance of the single-mode Gottesman-Kitaev-Preskill (GKP) code and its concatenation with the toric code for a noise model of Gaussian shifts, or displacement errors. We show how one can optimize the tracking of errors in repeated noisy error correction for the GKP code. We do this by examining the maximum-likelihood problem for this setting and its mapping onto a 1D Euclidean path-integral modeling a particle in a random cosine potential. We demonstrate the efficiency of a minimum-energy decoding strategy as a proxy for the path integral evaluation. In the second part of this paper, we analyze and numerically assess the concatenation of the GKP code with the toric code. When toric code measurements and GKP error correction measurements are perfect, we find that by using GKP error information the toric code threshold improves from 10% to 14%. When only the GKP error correction measurements are perfect we observe a threshold at 6%. In the more realistic setting when all error information is noisy, we show how to represent the maximum likelihood decoding problem for the toric-GKP code as a 3D compact QED model in the presence of a quenched random gauge field, an extension of the random-plaquette gauge model for the toric code. We present a decoder for this problem which shows the existence of a noise threshold at shift-error standard deviation σ 0 ≈ 0.243 for toric code measurements, data errors and GKP ancilla errors. If the errors only come from having imperfect GKP states, then this corresponds to states with just four photons or more. Our last result is a no-go result for linear oscillator codes, encoding oscillators into oscillators. For the Gaussian displacement error model, we prove that encoding corresponds to squeezing the shift errors. This shows that linear oscillator codes are useless for quantum information protection against Gaussian shift errors.
We compute the spontaneous relaxation rate of a two-level atom in a planar cavity with parity (P) and parity-time (PT ) symmetry. We find that at the center of a PT -symmetric cavity the evanescent contribution to the relaxation rate is greatly suppressed. As this is the dominant relaxation pathway for cavities smaller than the transition wavelength, PT -symmetric microcavities are able to suppress the spontaneous relaxation rate dramatically and, in some cases, reduce it to below the free-space level. The ability to reduce the relaxation rate and lengthen the excited-state lifetime has many applications in quantum control and can, for example, be used to increase atomic trapping times, improve photonic storage, and help maintain the coherence of atomic qubits.
The three-spin-1/2 decoherence-free subsystem defines a logical qubit protected from collective noise and supports exchange-only universal gates. Such logical qubits are well suited for implementation with electrically defined quantum dots. Exact exchange-only entangling logical gates exist but are challenging to construct and understand. We use a decoupling strategy to obtain straightforward approximate entangling gates. A benefit of the strategy is that, if the physical spins are aligned, then it can implement evolution under entangling Hamiltonians. Hamiltonians expressible as linear combinations of logical Pauli products not involving σ y can be implemented directly. Self-inverse gates that are constructible from these Hamiltonians, such as the controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate, can be implemented without the assumption on the physical spins. We compare the control complexity of implementing CNOT to previous methods and find that the complexity for fault-tolerant fidelities is competitive.
A pure quantum state of N subsystems with local dimension d is called a k-uniform state if every reduction to k qudits is maximally mixed. Based on a special class of combinatorial design, namely irredundant orthogonal arrays, we show the existence of 2-uniform N-qudit states when N 4 and d is a prime power other than 2. In addition, given any Hadamard matrix of order greater than 4, we demonstrate how it can be used to construct 3uniform multiqubit states. In fact, we find that there exists some 3-uniform N-qubit when N 8 except case N = 9. These give an answer to a question posed by Goyeneche et al. [Phys. Rev. A 90, 022316 (2014)]. Furthermore, starting from a minimal support k-uniform state, we show how to generate an orthogonal basis consisting of k-uniform states. At last, we derive a series of (k -1)-uniform (N -1)-qudit states from a single k-uniform N-qudit state. The k-uniform states are good candidates among the multipartite entangled states.
PT -symmetric systems are one of the most interesting research fields in modern quantum physics, where various theoretical and experimental progress has been made. In our work, we experimentally demonstrate how to realize a general PT -symmetric two-level operation in a quantum computation frame with a universal circuit model. It is based on enlarging the system with ancillary qubits and encoding the subsystem with the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian with postselection. Furthermore, we use the general formula to demonstrate one particular interesting issue, entanglement restoration induced by local PT -symmetric operation in our four-qubit liquid nuclear magnetic resonance platform, and a theoretical explanation for the physical characteristics has been proposed. We also extend the protocol to the realization of an arbitrary two-level Hamiltonian evolution without a Hermitian restriction by an appropriate modification of the original quantum circuit. Our work lays the foundation for quantum simulation of the general PT -symmetric problem in realistic quantum simulators, and the scheme can be extended to other quantum computation platforms.
Quantum annealing in a real device is necessarily susceptible to errors due to diabatic transitions and thermal noise. Nested quantum annealing correction is a method to suppress errors by using an all-to-all penalty coupling among a set of physical qubits representing a logical qubit. We show analytically that nested quantum annealing correction can suppress errors effectively in ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic Ising models with infiniterange interactions. Our analysis reveals that the nesting structure can significantly weaken or even remove firstorder phase transitions, in which the energy gap closes exponentially. The nesting structure also suppresses thermal fluctuations by reducing the effective temperature.
We report a single-stage bidirectional interface capable of linking Sr + trapped-ion qubits in a longdistance quantum network. Our interface converts photons between the Sr + emission wavelength at 422 nm and the telecom C band to enable low-loss transmission over optical fiber. We have achieved both up-and down-conversion at the single-photon level with efficiencies of 9.4% and 1.1%, respectively. Furthermore, we demonstrate noise levels that are low enough to allow for genuine quantum operation in the future.
Cubic silicon carbide is an excellent platform for integration of defect qubits into established waferscale device architectures for quantum information and sensing applications, where a divacancy qubit, which is similar to the negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond, has favorable coherence properties. We demonstrate by means of density-functional-theory calculations that for most types of distortion the 3C divacancy exhibits slightly smaller spin-strain coupling parameters but greater spinstress coupling parameters in comparison with the diamond NV. We predict that high-quality 3C-SiC thin films hosting divacancy qubits are prospective platforms for quantum-enhanced pressure-sensor devices.
Defects in crystals are leading candidates for photon-based quantum technologies, but progress in developing practical devices critically depends on improving defect optical and spin properties. Motivated by this need, we study a new defect qubit candidate, the shallow donor in ZnO. We demonstrate all-optical control of the electron spin state of the donor qubits and measure the spin coherence properties. We find a longitudinal relaxation time T 1 exceeding 100 ms, an inhomogeneous dephasing time T * 2 of 17 ± 2 ns, and a Hahn-spin-echo time T 2 of 50 ± 13 μs. The magnitude of T * 2 is consistent with the inhomogeneity of the nuclear hyperfine field in natural ZnO. Possible mechanisms limiting T 2 include instantaneous diffusion and nuclear spin diffusion (spectral diffusion). These dephasing mechanisms suggest that with isotope and chemical purification qubit coherence times can be extended. This work should motivate further research on high-purity material growth, quantum-device fabrication, and high-fidelity control of the donor-ZnO system for quantum technologies.
The silicon monovacancy in 4H -SiC is a promising candidate for solid-state quantum information processing. We perform high-resolution optical spectroscopy on single V2 defects at cryogenic temperatures. We find favorable low-temperature optical properties that are essential for optical readout and coherent control of its spin and for the development of a spin-photon interface. The common features among individual defects include two narrow, nearly lifetime-limited optical transitions that correspond to m s = ± 3/2 and m s = ± 1/2 spin states with no discernable zero-field-splitting fluctuations. Initialization and readout of the spin states are characterized by time-resolved optical spectroscopy under resonant excitation of these transitions, showing significant differences between the ±3/2 and ±1/2 spin states. These results are well described by a theoretical model that strengthens our understanding of the quantum properties of this defect.
For a frequency-tunable two-qubit system, a controlled-Z (CZ) gate can be realized by adiabatic driving of the qubit system through an avoided level crossing between an auxiliary state and computational levels.
Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) enables the fabrication of two-dimensional δ-doped structures in Si with atomistic precision, with applications from tunnel field-effect transistors to qubits. The combination of a very small contact area and the restrictive thermal budget necessary to maintain the integrity of the δ layer make developing a robust electrical contact method a significant challenge to realizing the potential of atomically precise devices. We demonstrate a method for electrical contact using Pd 2 Si formed at the temperature of silicon overgrowth (250 °C), minimizing the diffusive impact on the δ layer. We use the transfer length method to show our Pd 2 Si contacts have very high yield (99.7% +0.2% -1.5%) and low resistivity (272 ± 41 µm) in contacting mesa-etched Si:P δ layers. We also present three terminal measurements of low contact resistance (<1 k ) to devices written by STM hydrogen depassivation lithography with similarly high yield (100% +0% -3.2%).
We demonstrate that a high kinetic inductance disordered-superconductor nanowire can realize a circuit element -known as a superinductor -with a characteristic impedance greater than the quantum resistance (R Q = h/4e 2 6.5 k ) and a quality factor of 25 000 at single-photon excitation. By examining loss rates, we demonstrate that the microwave dissipation can be fully understood in the framework of two-levelsystem dielectric loss. Superinductors can suppress the quantum fluctuations of charge in a circuit, which has applications, for example, in devices for quantum computing, photon detection, and other sensors based on mesoscopic circuits.
Silicon is the most-developed electronic and photonic technological platform and hosts some of the highest-performance spin and photonic qubits developed to date. A hybrid quantum technology harnessing an efficient spin-photon interface in silicon would unlock considerable potential by enabling ultralonglived photonic memories, distributed quantum networks, microwave-to-optical photon converters, and spin-based quantum processors, all linked with integrated silicon photonics. However, the indirect band gap of silicon makes identification of efficient spin-photon interfaces nontrivial. Here we build upon the recent identification of chalcogen donors as a promising spin-photon interface in silicon. We determine that the spin-dependent optical degree of freedom has a transition dipole moment stronger than previously thought [here 1.96( 
Dispersive sensing is a powerful technique that enables scalable and high-fidelity readout of solid-state quantum bits. In particular, gate-based dispersive sensing has been proposed as the readout mechanism for future topological qubits, which can be measured by single electrons tunneling through zero-energy modes. The development of such a readout requires resolving the coherent charge tunneling amplitude from a quantum dot in a Majorana-zero-mode host system faithfully on short time scales. Here, we demonstrate rapid single-shot detection of a coherent single-electron tunneling amplitude between InAs nanowire quantum dots. We realize a sensitive dispersive detection circuit by connecting a sub-GHz, lumpedelement microwave resonator to a high-lever arm gate on one of the dots. The resulting large dot-resonator coupling leads to an observed dispersive shift that is of the order of the resonator linewidth at charge degeneracy. This shift enables us to differentiate between Coulomb blockade and resonance-corresponding to the scenarios expected for qubit-state readout-with a signal-to-noise ratio exceeding 2 for an integration time of 1 μs. Our result paves the way for single-shot measurements of fermion parity on microsecond time scales in topological qubits.
Silicon spin qubits are a promising quantum-computing platform offering long coherence times, small device sizes, and compatibility with industry-backed device-fabrication techniques. In recent years, highfidelity single-qubit and two-qubit operations have been demonstrated in Si. Here we demonstrate coherent spin control in a quadruple quantum dot fabricated from isotopically enriched 28 Si. We tune the groundstate charge configuration of the quadruple dot down to the single-electron regime and demonstrate tunable interdot tunnel couplings as large as 20 GHz, which enables exchange-based two-qubit gate operations. Site-selective single spin rotations are achieved with the use of electric dipole spin resonance in a magnetic field gradient. We execute a resonant controlled-NOT gate between two adjacent spins in 270 ns.
We investigate the structural and quantum transport properties of isotopically enriched 28 Si/ 28 SiO 2 stacks deposited on 300-mm Si wafers in an industrial CMOS fab. Highly uniform films are obtained with an isotopic purity greater than 99.92%. Hall-bar transistors with an oxide stack comprising 10 nm of 28 SiO 2 and 17 nm of Al 2 O 3 (equivalent oxide thickness of 17 nm) are fabricated in an academic cleanroom. A critical density for conduction of 1.75 × 10 11 cm -2 and a peak mobility of 9800 cm 2 /Vs are measured at a temperature of 1.7 K. The 28 Si/ 28 SiO 2 interface is characterized by a roughness of = 0.4 nm and a correlation length of = 3.4 nm. An upper bound for valley splitting energy of 480 μeV is estimated at an effective electric field of 9.5 MV/m. These results support the use of wafer-scale 28 Si/ 28 SiO 2 as a promising material platform to manufacture industrial spin qubits.
Phonons at gigahertz frequencies interact with electrons, photons, and atomic systems in solids, and therefore, have extensive applications in signal processing, sensing, and quantum technologies. Surface acoustic wave (SAW) resonators that confine surface phonons can play a crucial role in such integrated phononic systems due to small mode size, low dissipation, and efficient electrical transduction. To date, it has been challenging to achieve a high quality (Q) factor and small phonon mode size for SAW resonators at gigahertz frequencies. We present a methodology to design compact high-Q SAW resonators on lithium niobate operating at gigahertz frequencies. We experimentally verify designs and demonstrate Q factors in excess of 2 × 10 4 at room temperature (6 × 10 4 at 4 Kelvin) and mode size as low as 1.87 λ 2 . This is achieved by phononic band structure engineering, which provides high confinement with low mechanical loss. The frequency Q products (fQ) of our SAW resonators are greater than 10 13 . These high-fQ and small mode size SAW resonators could enable applications in quantum phononics and integrated hybrid systems with phonons, photons, and solid-state qubits.
We implement a technique for measuring the singlet-triplet energy splitting responsible for spin-tocharge conversion in semiconductor quantum dots. This method, which requires fast, single-shot charge measurement, reliably extracts both large and small splittings. We perform this technique on an undoped, accumulation-mode Si/Si-Ge triple-quantum dot and find that the measured splitting varies smoothly as a function of confinement gate biases. Not only does this demonstration prove the value of having an in situ excited-state measurement technique as part of a standard tune-up procedure, but it also suggests that in typical Si/Si-Ge quantum-dot devices, spin blockade can be limited by lateral orbital excitation energies rather than valley splitting.
Efficient generation of single photons on demand at a high repetition rate is a key to the practical realization of quantum-communication networks and optical quantum computations. Color centers in diamond and related wide-band-gap semiconductors are considered to be the most promising candidates for building such single-photon sources due to their outstanding emission properties at room temperature. However, efficient electrical excitation of color centers in most materials remains a challenge due to the inability to create a high density of free carriers. We predict a superinjection effect in diamond p-i-n diodes. By employing a comprehensive theoretical approach, we numerically demonstrate that one can overcome the doping problem in diamond and inject four orders of magnitude more electrons into the i region of the diamond p-i-n diode than the doping of the n region allows. This high density of free electrons can be efficiently used to boost the single-photon electroluminescence process and enhance the brightness of the diamond single-photon source by more than three orders of magnitude. Moreover, we show that such a high single-photon emission rate can be achieved at exceptionally low injection current densities of only 0.001 A/mm 2 , which creates the backbone for the development of low-power and cost-efficient diamond quantum optoelectronic devices for quantum information technologies.
Magnetfree circulators are crucial devices to enable full-duplex communications with the goal of enhancing the spectral efficiency of wireless radios compared to currently deployed half-duplex systems. Nevertheless, implementations proposed to date at radio-and millimeter-wave frequencies have been based on spatiotemporally modulating a discrete number of nonlinear elements, such as varactors or switched capacitors, which, despite achieving strong nonreciprocity, suffer from spurious emission in adjacent channels and limited power handling. These problems jeopardize the practical use of these components in many applications, including wireless communications and quantum computing, and make them less attractive compared to harmonicfree magnetic devices. We address these problems by introducing N -way circulators, which consist of N spatiotemporally modulated angular-momentum (STM AM) biased units connected either in series or in parallel and modulated through a rotating phase pattern. We show that these circuits, for a sufficiently large N, effectively impart an overall linear and continuous angular-momentum bias, which significantly reduces spurious emission and increases the overall power handling. This, in turn, strengthens the argument of magnetless circulators compared to their magnetic counterparts, and opens exciting venues to address the realistic needs of practical systems.
Nuclear spins nearby nitrogen-vacancy (N-V) centers in diamond are excellent quantum memory for quantum computing and quantum sensing, but are difficult to initialize due to their weak interactions with the environment. Here, we propose and demonstrate a magnetic-field-independent, deterministic, and highly efficient polarization scheme by introducing chopped laser pulses into the double-resonance initialization method. With this method, we demonstrate the initialization of a single-nuclear-spin system approaching 98.1% and a 14 N-13 C double-nuclear-spin system approaching 96.8% at room temperature. The initialization is limited by a nuclear-spin depolarization effect due to chopped laser excitation. Our approach could be extended to N-V systems with more nuclear spins and would be a useful tool in future applications such as nano-magnetic resonance imaging and single-cell NMR.
The growing field of quantum computing is based on the concept of a q-bit, which is a delicate superposition of 0 and 1, requiring cryogenic temperatures for its physical realization along with challenging coherent coupling techniques for entangling them. By contrast, a probabilistic bit or a p-bit is a robust classical entity that fluctuates between 0 and 1 and can be implemented at room temperature using present-day technology. Here, we show that a probabilistic coprocessor built out of room-temperature p-bits can be used to accelerate simulations of a special class of quantum many-body systems that are sign-problem-free or "stoquastic," leveraging the well-known Suzuki-Trotter decomposition that maps a d-dimensional quantum many-body Hamiltonian to a d + 1-dimensional classical Hamiltonian. This mapping allows an efficient emulation of a quantum system by classical computers and is commonly used in software to perform quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) algorithms. By contrast, we show that a compact, embedded magnetic tunnel junction (MTJ)-based coprocessor can serve as a highly efficient hardware accelerator for such QMC algorithms, providing an improvement in speed of several orders of magnitude compared to optimized CPU implementations. Using realistic device-level SPICE simulations, we demonstrate that the correct quantum correlations can be obtained using a classical p-circuit built with existing technology and operating at room temperature. The proposed coprocessor can serve as a tool to study stoquastic quantum many-body systems, overcoming challenges associated with physical quantum annealers.
Treatment of laboratory-grown diamond by electron irradiation and annealing has enabled quantum sensors based on negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (N-V -) centers to demonstrate record sensitivities. Here we investigate the irradiation and annealing process applied to 28 diamond samples using an ambient-temperature, all-optical approach. As the presence of the neutrally charged nitrogen-vacancy (N-V 0 ) center is deleterious to sensor performance, this photoluminescence decomposition analysis is first used to determine the concentration ratio of N-V -to N-V 0 in diamond samples from the measured photoluminescence spectrum. The analysis hinges on (i) isolating each N-V charge state's emission spectrum and (ii) measuring the N-V -to N-V 0 emission ratio, which is found to be 2.5 ± 0.5 under low-intensity 532nm illumination. Using the photoluminescence-decomposition-analysis method, we measure the effects of irradiation and annealing on conversion of substitutional nitrogen to N-V centers. Combining these measurements with a phenomenological model for diamond irradiation and annealing, we extract an estimated monovacancy creation rate of 0.52 ± 0.26 cm -1 for 1-MeV electron irradiation and an estimated monovacancy diffusion coefficient of 1.8 nm 2 /s at 850 • C. Finally, we find that irradiation doses of 10 18 e -/cm 2 or more deteriorate the N-V -decoherence time T 2 , whereas T 1 is unaffected up to the the maximum investigated dose of 5 × 10 18 e -/cm 2 .
improve their solubility in common solvents and avoid stacking through rational surface functionalization available for future applications. Currently, covalent and noncovalent strategies are commonly used in surface functionalization of carbon nanomaterials.
Hybrid quantum registers consisting of different types of qubit offer a range of advantages as well as challenges. The main challenge is that some types of qubit react only slowly to external control fields, thus considerably slowing down the information-processing operations. One promising approach that has been tested in a number of cases is to use indirect control, where external fields are applied only to qubits that interact strongly with resonant excitation pulses. Here, we use this approach to indirectly control the nuclear spins of a nitrogen-vacancy center, using microwave pulses to drive the electron spin, combined with free precession periods optimized for generating logical gate operations on the nuclear spins. The scheme provides universal control and we present two typical applications: polarizing the nuclear spin and measuring nuclear-spin free-induction-decay signals, both without applying radio-frequency pulses. This scheme is versatile, as it can be implemented over a wide range of magnetic field strengths and at any temperature.
Silicon spin qubits show great promise as a scalable qubit platform for fault-tolerant quantum computing. However, fast high-fidelity readout of charge and spin states, which is required for quantum error correction, has remained elusive. Radio-frequency reflectometry enables rapid high-fidelity readout of GaAs spin qubits, but the large capacitances between accumulation gates and the underlying twodimensional electron gas in accumulation-mode Si quantum-dot devices, as well as the relatively low two-dimensional electron gas mobilities, have made radio-frequency reflectometry challenging in these platforms. In this work, we implement radio-frequency reflectometry in a Si/Si-Ge quantum-dot device with overlapping gates by making minor device-level changes that eliminate these challenges. We demonstrate charge-state readout with a fidelity above 99.9% in an integration time of 300 ns. We measure the singlet and triplet states of a double quantum dot via both conventional Pauli spin blockade and a charge latching mechanism, and we achieve maximum fidelities of 82.9 and 99.0% in 2.08-and 1.6-μs integration times, respectively. We also use radio-frequency reflectometry to perform single-shot readout of single-spin states via spin-selective tunneling in microsecond-scale integration times.
Valley splitting is a key feature of silicon-based spin qubits. Quantum dots in Si/Si x Ge 1-x heterostructures reportedly suffer from a relatively low valley splitting, limiting the operation temperature and the scalability of such qubit devices. Here, we demonstrate a robust and large valley splitting exceeding 200 μeV in a gate-defined single quantum dot, hosted in molecular-beam-epitaxy-grown 28 Si/Si x Ge 1-x . The valley splitting is monotonically and reproducibly tunable up to 15% by gate voltages, originating from a 6-nm lateral displacement of the quantum dot. We observe static spin relaxation times T 1 > 1 s at low magnetic fields in our device containing an integrated nanomagnet. At higher magnetic fields, T 1 is limited by the valley hotspot and by phonon noise coupling to intrinsic and artificial spin-orbit coupling, including phonon bottlenecking.
The current practice of manually tuning quantum dots (QDs) for qubit operation is a relatively timeconsuming procedure that is inherently impractical for scaling up and applications. In this work, we report on the in situ implementation of a recently proposed autotuning protocol that combines machine learning (ML) with an optimization routine to navigate the parameter space. In particular, we show that a ML algorithm trained using exclusively simulated data to quantitatively classify the state of a double-QD device can be used to replace human heuristics in the tuning of gate voltages in real devices. We demonstrate active feedback of a functional double-dot device operated at millikelvin temperatures and discuss success rates as a function of the initial conditions and the device performance. Modifications to the training network, fitness function, and optimizer are discussed as a path toward further improvement in the success rate when starting both near and far detuned from the target double-dot range.
Silicon-vacancy qubits in silicon carbide (SiC) are emerging tools in quantum-technology applications due to their excellent optical and spin properties. In this paper, we explore the effect of temperature and strain on these properties by focusing on the two silicon-vacancy qubits, V1 and V2, in 4H -SiC. We apply density-functional theory beyond the Born-Oppenheimer approximation to describe the temperaturedependent mixing of electronic excited states assisted by phonons. We obtain a polaronic gap of around 5 and 22 meV for the V1 and V2 centers, respectively, which results in a significant difference in the temperature-dependent dephasing and zero-field splitting of the excited states, which explains recent experimental findings. We also compute how crystal deformations affect the zero-phonon line of these emitters. Our predictions are important ingredients in any quantum applications of these qubits sensitive to these effects.
Teleportation is a fundamental concept of quantum mechanics with an important application in extending the range of quantum communication channels via quantum relay nodes. To be compatible with real-world technology such as secure quantum key distribution over fiber networks, such a relay node should ideally operate at gigahertz clock rates and accept time-bin-encoded qubits in the low-loss telecom band around 1550 nm. Here, we show that InAs-InP droplet-epitaxy quantum dots, with their sub-Poissonian emission near 1550 nm, are ideally suited for the realization of this technology. To create the necessary on-demand photon emission at gigahertz clock rates, we develop a flexible-pulsed opticalexcitation scheme and demonstrate that the fast driving conditions are compatible with a low multiphoton emission rate. We show further that, even under these driving conditions, photon pairs obtained from the biexciton cascade show an entanglement fidelity close to 90%, comparable to the value obtained under continuous-wave excitation. Using asymmetric Mach-Zehnder interferometers and our photon source, we finally construct a time-bin qubit quantum relay able to receive and send time-bin-encoded photons and demonstrate mean teleportation fidelities of 0.82 ± 0.01, exceeding the classical limit by more than ten standard deviations.
The presence of nondegenerate valley states in silicon can drastically affect electron dynamics in siliconbased heterostructures, leading to electron spin relaxation and spin-valley coupling. In the context of solid-state spin qubits, it is important to understand the interplay between spin and valley degrees of freedom to avoid or alleviate these decoherence mechanisms. Here we report the observation of relaxation from the excited valley state to the ground state in a Si/Si-Ge quantum dot at zero magnetic field. Valleystate readout is aided by a valley-dependent tunneling effect, which we attribute to valley-orbit coupling. We find a long intervalley relaxation time of 12.0 ± 0.3 ms, a value that is unmodified when a magnetic field is applied. Furthermore, we compare our findings with the spin relaxation time and find that the spin-valley "hot spot" relaxation is roughly 4 times slower than intervalley relaxation, consistent with established theoretical predictions. The precision of this technique, adapted from electron spin readout via energy-dependent tunneling, is an improvement over indirect valley relaxation measurements and could be a useful probe of valley physics in spin-qubit and valley-qubit implementations.
Superconductor-semiconductor-nanowire hybrid structures can serve as versatile building blocks to realize Majorana circuits or superconducting qubits based on quantized levels such as Andreev qubits. For all these applications, it is essential that the superconductor-semiconductor interface is as clean as possible. Furthermore, the shape and dimensions of the superconducting electrodes need to be precisely controlled. We fabricated self-defined InAs/Al core-shell nanowire junctions by a fully in-situ approach, which meet all these criteria. Transmission electron microscopy measurements confirm the sharp and clean interface between the nanowire and the in-situ deposited Al electrodes that are formed by means of shadow evaporation. Furthermore, we report on tunnel spectroscopy, gate, and magnetic field-dependent transport measurements. The achievable short junction lengths, the observed hard gap, and the magnetic field robustness make this hybrid structure very attractive for applications that rely on a precise control of the number of subgap states, like Andreev qubits or topological systems.
A quantum network consisting of computational nodes connected by high-fidelity communication channels could expand information-processing capabilities significantly beyond those of classical networks. Superconducting qubits hold promise for scalable and high-fidelity quantum computation at microwave frequencies but must operate in an isolated cryogenic environment, obviating the potential for practical long-range communication. Quantum communication has, however, been demonstrated with optical photons. A fast efficient quantum-coherent interface between superconducting qubits and optical photons would provide a key resource for a large-scale quantum network or distributed quantum computer. Here, we describe the design and experimental operation of a device incorporating a silicon optomechanical nanobeam combined with an aluminum-nitride-based electromechanical transducer. We experimentally demonstrate classical continuous-wave operation of this device at room temperature with external conversion efficiencies of (2.5 ± 0.4) × 10 -5 (microwave to optical) and (3.8 ± 0.4) × 10 -5 (optical to microwave), corresponding to internal efficiencies of 2.4% and 3.7%, respectively. This device also has a larger bandwidth than previous efficient microwave-optical transducers, allowing us to operate in the time domain with 20-ns pulses.
Optically active spin centers associated with atomic scale defects in SiC are promising candidates for quantum technology, owing to their outstanding optical and spin properties. Photoluminescence as a mature optical investigating tool is widely used for the identification of spin defects and exploration of their properties. However, in the case of spectrally overlapping contributions from different types of defects, traditional photoluminescence measurements cannot be used to separately obtain their optical and vibrational properties, such as the local phonon energy and the Debye-Waller factor. Here, we apply spinresonant microwave-assisted spectroscopy to investigate the optical and vibrational properties of silicon vacancies in 6H -SiC and divacancies in 4H -and 6H -SiC. We isolate contributions from each type of defect, investigate their local vibrational modes, and obtain the Debye-Waller factor. This work proves that microwave-assisted spectroscopy is a suitable tool for the investigation of optical and vibrational properties of a large variety of spin defects.
Protecting superconducting qubits from low-frequency noise is essential for advancing superconducting quantum computation. Based on the application of a periodic drive field, we develop a protocol for engineering dynamical sweet spots, which reduce the susceptibility of a qubit to low-frequency noise. Using the framework of Floquet theory, we prove rigorously that there are manifolds of dynamical sweet spots marked by extrema in the quasienergy differences of the driven qubit. In particular, for the example of fluxonium biased slightly away from half a flux quantum, we predict an enhancement of pure dephasing by 3 orders of magnitude. Employing the Floquet eigenstates as the computational basis, we show that high-fidelity single-and two-qubit gates can be implemented while maintaining dynamical sweet-spot operation. We further confirm that qubit readout can be performed by adiabatically mapping the Floquet states back to the static qubit states, and subsequently applying standard measurement techniques. Our work provides an intuitive tool to encode quantum information in robust, time-dependent states, and may be extended to alternative architectures for quantum-information processing.
Silicon-quantum-dot qubits must contend with low-lying valley excited states that are sensitive functions of the quantum-well heterostructure and disorder; quantifying and maximizing the energies of these states are critical to improving device performance. We describe a spectroscopic method for probing excited states in isolated Si/Si-Ge double quantum dots using standard baseband pulsing techniques, easing the extraction of energy spectra in multiple-dot devices. We use this method to measure dozens of valley excited-state energies spanning multiple wafers, quantum dots, and orbital states, which are crucial for evaluating the dependence of valley splitting on quantum well width and other epitaxial conditions. Our results suggest that narrower wells can be beneficial for increasing valley splittings, but this effect can be confounded by variations in growth and fabrication conditions. These results underscore the importance of valley-splitting measurements for guiding the development of Si qubits.
We explore a two-qubit system defined on valley isospins of two electrons confined in a gate-defined double quantum dot created within a MoS 2 monolayer flake. We show how to initialize, control, interact, and read out such valley qubits by only electrical means using voltages applied to the local planar gates, which are layered on the top of the flake. By demonstrating the two-qubit exchange or readout via the Pauli blockade, we prove that valley qubits in the transition-metal-dichalcogenide semiconductor family fulfill the universality criteria and represent a scalable quantum-computing platform. Our numerical experiments are based on the tight-binding model for a MoS 2 monolayer, which gives single-electron eigenstates that are then used to construct a basis of Slater determinants for the two-electron configuration space. We express screened electron-electron interactions in this basis by calculating the Coulomb matrix elements using localized Slater-type orbitals. Then we solve the time-dependent Schrödinger equation and obtain an exact time evolution of the two-electron system. During the evolution we simultaneously solve the Poison equation, finding the confinement potential controlled via voltages applied to the gates.
The experimental optimization of a two-qubit controlled-Z (CZ) gate is realized following two different data-driven gradient-ascent pulse engineering (GRAPE) protocols with the aim of optimizing the gate operator and the output quantum state, respectively. For both GRAPE protocols, the key computation of gradients utilizes mixed information of the input Z-control pulse and the experimental measurement. With an imperfect initial pulse in a flattop waveform, our experimental implementation shows that the CZ gate is quickly improved and the gate fidelities subject to the two optimized pulses are around 99%. Our experimental study confirms the applicability of the data-driven GRAPE protocols in the gate optimization problem.
Superconducting qubits on a circuit exhibit an always-on state-dependent phase error. This error is due to sub-MHz parasitic interaction that repels computational levels from noncomputational ones. We study a general theory to evaluate the "static" repulsion between seemingly idle qubits as well as the "dynamical" repulsion between entangled qubits under microwave driving gate. By combining qubits of either the same or opposite anharmonicity signs we find the characteristics of static and dynamical ZZ freedoms. The latter universally eliminate the parasitic repulsion, leading us to mitigate high-fidelity gate operation. Our theory introduces the opportunities for making perfect entangled and unentangled states, which is extremely useful for quantum technology.
The coherence of state-of-the-art superconducting qubit devices is predominantly limited by two-levelsystem defects, which are found primarily at amorphous interface layers. Reducing microwave loss from these interfaces by proper surface treatments is key to pushing the device performance forward. Here, we study niobium resonators after removing the native oxides with a hydrofluoric acid etch. We investigate the reappearance of microwave losses introduced by surface oxides that grow after exposure to air. We find that microwave loss in resonators are reduced by approximately an order of magnitude: internal Q factors increase from 1 × 10 6 to 7 × 10 6 in the single-photon regime when oxides are removed and device exposure to air is no longer than 16 min. Furthermore, we observe that Nb 2 O 5 is the only surface oxide that grows significantly within the first 200 h, following the extended Cabrera-Mott growth model. In this time, microwave losses scale linearly with the Nb 2 O 5 thickness, with an extracted loss tangent, tan δ Nb 2 O 5 , of about 1 × 10 -2 . Our findings are of particular interest for devices spanning from superconducting qubits, quantum-limited amplifiers, and microwave kinetic inductance detectors to single-photon detectors.
x Ge 1-x quantum dots are promising candidates for quantum bits but are also challenging due to the valley degeneracy and weak spin-orbital coupling. In this work, we demonstrate that valley states can serve as an asset that enables full two-axis control of a singlet-triplet qubit formed in a double quantum dot. We measure the valley spectrum in each dot using magnetic field spectroscopy of Zeeman split triplet states. We find a finite probability of valley states to flip during interdot transitions, which in turn provides a g-factor difference g between two dots. This g serves as an effective magnetic field gradient and allows for qubit rotations with a rate that increases linearly with an external magnetic field. We measure several interdot transitions and find that this valley-introduced g is universal and electrically tunable. This could potentially simplify the scaling up of quantum information processing in the Si x Ge 1-x platform by removing the requirement for magnetic field gradients, which are difficult to engineer.
The superconducting transmon qubit is currently a leading qubit modality for quantum computing, but the gate performance in a quantum processor with transmons is often insufficient to support the running of complex algorithms for practical applications. It is thus highly desirable to further improve gate performance. Due to the weak anharmonicity of a transmon, a static ZZ interaction between coupled transmons commonly exists, undermining the gate performance and, in the long term, it can become performance limiting. Here, we theoretically explore a promising parameter region in an all-transmon system to address this issue. We show that a feasible parameter region, where the ZZ interaction is heavily suppressed, while leaving the XY interaction with an adequate strength to implement two-qubit gates, can be found for alltransmon systems. Thus, two-qubit gates, such as a cross-resonance gate or an iSWAP gate, can be realized without a detrimental effect from the static ZZ interaction. To illustrate this, we demonstrate that an iSWAP gate with a fast gate speed and dramatically lower conditional phase error can be achieved. By scaling up to a large-scale transmon quantum processor, especially for cases with fixed coupling, addressing errors, idling errors, and crosstalk that arise from the static ZZ interaction can also be strongly suppressed.
x Ge 1-x quantum dots are promising candidates for quantum bits but are also challenging due to the valley degeneracy and weak spin-orbital coupling. In this work, we demonstrate that valley states can serve as an asset that enables full two-axis control of a singlet-triplet qubit formed in a double quantum dot. We measure the valley spectrum in each dot using magnetic field spectroscopy of Zeeman split triplet states. We find a finite probability of valley states to flip during interdot transitions, which in turn provides a g-factor difference g between two dots. This g serves as an effective magnetic field gradient and allows for qubit rotations with a rate that increases linearly with an external magnetic field. We measure several interdot transitions and find that this valley-introduced g is universal and electrically tunable. This could potentially simplify the scaling up of quantum information processing in the Si x Ge 1-x platform by removing the requirement for magnetic field gradients, which are difficult to engineer.
Hole spins in semiconductor quantum dots represent a viable route for the implementation of electrically controlled qubits. In particular, the qubit implementation based on Si p-MOSFETs offers great potentialities in terms of integration with the control electronics and long-term scalability. Moreover, the future down scaling of these devices will possibly improve the performance of both the classical (control) and quantum components of such monolithically integrated circuits. Here, we use a multiscale approach to simulate a hole-spin qubit in a down-scaled Si-channel p-MOSFET, the structure of which is based on a commercial 22-nm fully depleted silicon-on-insulator device. Our calculations show the formation of well-defined hole quantum dots within the Si channel and the possibility of a general electrical control, with Rabi frequencies of the order of 100 MHz for realistic field values. A crucial role of the channel aspect ratio is also demonstrated, as well as the presence of a favorable parameter range for the qubit manipulation.
The superconducting transmon qubit is currently a leading qubit modality for quantum computing, but the gate performance in a quantum processor with transmons is often insufficient to support the running of complex algorithms for practical applications. It is thus highly desirable to further improve gate performance. Due to the weak anharmonicity of a transmon, a static ZZ interaction between coupled transmons commonly exists, undermining the gate performance and, in the long term, it can become performance limiting. Here, we theoretically explore a promising parameter region in an all-transmon system to address this issue. We show that a feasible parameter region, where the ZZ interaction is heavily suppressed, while leaving the XY interaction with an adequate strength to implement two-qubit gates, can be found for alltransmon systems. Thus, two-qubit gates, such as a cross-resonance gate or an iSWAP gate, can be realized without a detrimental effect from the static ZZ interaction. To illustrate this, we demonstrate that an iSWAP gate with a fast gate speed and dramatically lower conditional phase error can be achieved. By scaling up to a large-scale transmon quantum processor, especially for cases with fixed coupling, addressing errors, idling errors, and crosstalk that arise from the static ZZ interaction can also be strongly suppressed.
Microwave delivery to samples in a cryogenic environment can pose experimental challenges such as restricting optical access, space constraints, and heat generation. Moreover, existing solutions that overcome various experimental restrictions do not necessarily provide a large homogeneous oscillating magnetic field over macroscopic length scales, which is required for control of spin ensembles or fast gate operations in scaled-up quantum computing implementations. Here, we show fast and coherent control of a negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy spin ensemble by taking advantage of the high permittivity of a KTaO 3 dielectric resonator at cryogenic temperatures. We achieve Rabi frequencies of up to 48 MHz, with a total power-to-field conversion factor C P = 9.66 mT/ √ W (approximately 191 MHz Rabi / √ W). We use the nitrogen-vacancy-center spin ensemble to probe the quality factor, the coherent enhancement, and the spatial distribution of the magnetic field inside the diamond sample. The key advantages of the dielectric resonator utilized in this work are ease of assembly, in situ tunability, a high magnetic field conversion efficiency, a low-volume footprint, and optical transparency. This makes KTaO 3 dielectric resonators a promising platform for the delivery of microwave fields for the control of spins in various materials at cryogenic temperatures.
We investigate the ultrastrong tunable coupler for coupling of superconducting resonators. The obtained coupling constant exceeds 1 GHz, and the wide-range tunability is achieved for both antiferromagnetics and ferromagnetics from -1086 to 604 MHz. The ultrastrong coupler is composed of a rf superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) and dc SQUID as tunable junctions, which connect to resonators via shared aluminum thin-film meander lines enabling such a huge coupling constant. The spectrum of the coupler obviously shows the breaking of the rotating-wave approximation, and our circuit model treating the Josephson junction as a tunable inductance reproduces the experimental results well. The ultrastrong coupler is expected to be utilized in quantum annealing circuits and/or noisy intermediate-scale quantum devices with dense connections between qubits.
Owing to a reduced solar background and low propagation losses in the atmosphere, the 2-to 2.5μm waveband is a promising candidate for daylight quantum communication. This spectral region also offers low losses and low dispersion in hollow-core fibers and in silicon waveguides. We demonstrate near-maximally entangled photon pairs at 2.1 μm that could support device-independent quantum key distribution (DIQKD), assuming sufficiently high channel efficiencies. The state corresponds to a positive secure-key rate (0.254 bits/pair, with a quantum bit error rate of 3.8%) based on measurements in a laboratory setting with minimal channel loss and transmission distance. This is promising for the future implementation of DIQKD at 2.1 μm.
With the advent of quantum technology, nitrogen vacancy (N-V) centers in diamond turn out to be a frontier that provides an efficient platform for quantum computation, communication, and sensing applications. Due to the coupled spin-charge dynamics of the N-V system, knowledge of N-V chargestate dynamics can help to formulate efficient spin-control sequences strategically. Here, we report two spectroscopy-based deconvolution methods to create charge-state mapping images of ensembles of N-V centers in diamond. First, relying on the fact that an off-axis external magnetic field mixes the electronic spins and selectively modifies the photoluminescence (PL) of N-V -, we perform decomposition of the optical spectrum for an ensemble of N-V and extract the spectra for N-V -and N-V 0 states. Next, we introduce an optical-filter-based decomposition protocol and perform PL imaging for N-V -and N-V 0 . Previously obtained spectra for N-V -and N-V 0 states are used to calculate their transmissivities through a long-pass optical filter. These results help us to determine the spatial distribution of the N-V charge states in a diamond sample.
Quantum key distribution (QKD) provides a methodology for secure key distribution based on fundamental physical laws. Although significant experimental progress has been made, the previous QKD systems are mainly composed of discrete optical and electronic devices. Here, we present a prototype of a QKD transmitter by developing the technologies of integrated silicon photonics and electronics. The photonic chip integrates the essential encoding components for the decoy-state BB84 protocol using polarization encoding, while the electronic chips integrate the dedicated driving circuits. On the basis of these integrated chips, we build a desktop QKD system to verify their performance. Successful QKD experiments are conducted at a repetition frequency of 312.5 MHz using standard fiber and emulated channel loss and the intrinsic quantum bit error rate of the system is as low as 0.41%. The finite-key secret rate is 42.7 kbit/s for the 100-km fiber and 295.5 bit/s for the 40-dB emulated loss. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of QKD based on integrated optoelectronic devices and hopefully take a fundamental toward a system-in-a-package solution.
Quantum entanglement is an important resource in quantum information processing tasks, such as quantum cryptography, quantum teleportation, and quantum computation. The main obstacle to faithful and reliable preparation of entangled states is environment-induced decoherence. Dissipative transition of a general quantum state to an entangled steady state provides an effective strategy to protect entanglement from decoherence, where the decoherence converts into an essential resource. In this paper, we put forward a scheme to prepare generalized Bell states based on trapped ions, in which unitary dynamics and spontaneous emission are combined to drive an arbitrary quantum state in the ground-state space to a unique steady state. The scheme is realized by using the renowned Sørensen-Mølmer setting and is therefore compatible with current experimental technology. Moreover, the vibrational degree of freedom is decoupled from the unitary dynamics so that the scheme does not need to cool the collective vibrational mode to its ground state and thus it works for thermally excited states. Besides, our scheme is demonstrated to be insensitive to variations of some parameters with the aid of numerical simulation.
The properties of rare-earth elements diluted in nonmagnetic crystals make them promising candidates for a quantum memory due to their limited Hilbert space. The control and readout of the qubit states require a highly sensitive measurement and large coupling of the spin ensemble with the electromagnetic mode of a superconducting resonator. We report sensitive detection of forbidden transitions of electronuclear states from the minority species of 155 Gd and 157 Gd isotopes, which opens the possibility of connecting quantum states with very different spin projections. Cavity perturbation measurements seen in the reflected signal allow the detection of about 7.6 × 10 7 spins and the measurement of phase memory loss rate and spin-photon coupling strength.
Single rare-earth ions in solids show great potential for quantum applications, including single-photon emission, quantum computing, and high-precision sensing. However, the linewidths of single rare-earth ions are often broadened due to perturbations associated with the detection methods. Identifying the dominant broadening sources is key to reduce the linewidths for practical applications. We report a spectral broadening study on a single Er 3+ ion in a Si nanotransistor. The single ion spectra display a Lorentzian lineshape at all light intensities considered. The linewidth remains nearly constant at 32±2 MHz in the low-intensity regime, and shows a monotonic increase with the intensity in the high-intensity regime. The power broadening does not persist over the microsecond time scales considered after resonant excitation. Nor does it depend on the resonant excitation intensity or the Zeeman shift. These observations and temperature-dependent measurements suggest that charge fluctuations are likely to be a dominant broadening source. Laser heating may also contribute to the power broadening. Charge suppression in the Er 3+ -doped region and coupling Er 3+ ions to a confined optical mode could be implemented to reduce the spectral linewidth and to enhance the sensing precision of single Er 3+ ions in Si.
Hamiltonians of the superconducting qubits of transmon type involve nonzero ZZ interaction terms due to their finite and small anharmonicities. These terms might lead to the unwanted accumulation of spurious phases during the execution of the two-qubit gates. Exact calculation of the ZZ interaction rates requires the full diagonalization of the circuit Hamiltonians, which very quickly becomes computationally demanding as the number of the modes in the coupler circuit increases. Here we propose a direct analytical method for the accurate estimation of the ZZ interaction rates between low-anharmonicity qubits in the dispersive limit of the multimode circuit quantum electrodynamics (circuit QED). We observe very good agreement between the predictions of our method and the measurement data collected from the multiqubit devices.
The possibility of controlling Josephson vortices and fluxon states has always been an attractive area of research that can influence the development of superconducting devices and quantum computing. Here we demonstrate the capability of magnetic force microscopy to detect and manipulate Josephson vortices (JVs) and fluxons below the critical current in complex superconducting systems on the example of a dc superconducting quantum interference device. The simultaneous magnetic force microscopy and transport investigation method make it possible to generate JVs by direct current in Josephson junctions and simultaneously analyze their dynamics under various external conditions. Our results show a dynamic process of transition of 2π -phase singularities of JVs and fluxons from one to another. Finally, we demonstrated that the magnetic force microscopy method could distinguish the difference in critical currents between several Josephson junctions in complex superconducting circuits without the need of direct electron transport measurements.
The possibility of controlling Josephson vortices and fluxon states has always been an attractive area of research that can influence the development of superconducting devices and quantum computing. Here we demonstrate the capability of magnetic force microscopy to detect and manipulate Josephson vortices (JVs) and fluxons below the critical current in complex superconducting systems on the example of a dc superconducting quantum interference device. The simultaneous magnetic force microscopy and transport investigation method make it possible to generate JVs by direct current in Josephson junctions and simultaneously analyze their dynamics under various external conditions. Our results show a dynamic process of transition of 2π -phase singularities of JVs and fluxons from one to another. Finally, we demonstrated that the magnetic force microscopy method could distinguish the difference in critical currents between several Josephson junctions in complex superconducting circuits without the need of direct electron transport measurements.
Semiconductor spin qubits may be coupled through a superconducting cavity to generate an entangling two-qubit gate. However, the fidelity of such an operation will be reduced by a variety of error mechanisms such as charge and magnetic noise, phonons, cavity loss, transitions to nonqubit states, and, for electrons in silicon, excitation into other valley eigenstates. Here, we model the effects of these error sources and the valley degree of freedom on the performance of a cavity-mediated two-qubit iSWAP gate. For valley splittings inadequately large relative to the interdot tunnel coupling within each qubit, we find that valley excitation may be a limiter to the fidelity of this two-qubit gate. In addition, we show trade-offs between gating times and exposure to various error sources, identifying optimal operating regimes and device improvements that would have the greatest impact on the fidelity of the cavity-mediated spin iSWAP gate. Importantly, we find that, while the impact of charge noise and phonon relaxation favor operation in the regime where the qubits are most spinlike to reduce sensitivity to these sources of noise, the combination of hyperfine noise and valley physics shifts the optimal regime to chargelike qubits with stronger effective spin-photon coupling so that gate times can be made as short as possible. In this regime, the primary limitation is the need to avoid Landau-Zener transitions as the gate is implemented.
Semiconductor spin qubits may be coupled through a superconducting cavity to generate an entangling two-qubit gate. However, the fidelity of such an operation will be reduced by a variety of error mechanisms such as charge and magnetic noise, phonons, cavity loss, transitions to nonqubit states, and, for electrons in silicon, excitation into other valley eigenstates. Here, we model the effects of these error sources and the valley degree of freedom on the performance of a cavity-mediated two-qubit iSWAP gate. For valley splittings inadequately large relative to the interdot tunnel coupling within each qubit, we find that valley excitation may be a limiter to the fidelity of this two-qubit gate. In addition, we show trade-offs between gating times and exposure to various error sources, identifying optimal operating regimes and device improvements that would have the greatest impact on the fidelity of the cavity-mediated spin iSWAP gate. Importantly, we find that, while the impact of charge noise and phonon relaxation favor operation in the regime where the qubits are most spinlike to reduce sensitivity to these sources of noise, the combination of hyperfine noise and valley physics shifts the optimal regime to chargelike qubits with stronger effective spin-photon coupling so that gate times can be made as short as possible. In this regime, the primary limitation is the need to avoid Landau-Zener transitions as the gate is implemented.
We introduce magic measures to quantify the nonstabilizerness of multiqubit quantum gates and establish lower bounds on the T count for fault-tolerant quantum computation. First, we introduce the stabilizer nullity of multiqubit unitary, which is based on the subgroup of the quotient Pauli group associated with the unitary. This unitary stabilizer nullity extends the state-stabilizer nullity by Beverland et al. [Quantum  Sci. Technol. 5, 035009 (2020)] to a dynamic version. In particular, we show this nonstabilizerness measure has desirable properties, such as subadditivity under composition and additivity under tensor product. Second, we prove that a given unitary's stabilizer nullity is a lower bound for the T count, utilizing the above properties in gate synthesis. Third, we compare the state and the unitary stabilizer nullity, proving that the lower bounds for the T count obtained by the unitary stabilizer nullity are never less than the state-stabilizer nullity. Moreover, we show an explicit n-qubit unitary family of unitary stabilizer nullity 2n, which implies that its T count is at least 2n. This gives an example where the bounds derived by the unitary stabilizer nullity strictly outperform the state-stabilizer nullity by a factor of 2. We finally showcase the advantages of unitary stabilizer nullity in estimating the T count of quantum gates with interests.
We study acoustic topological edge modes in a honeycomb phononic crystal composed of metallic nanopillars on a LiNbO 3 substrate. Acoustic band calculations show that the topological surface acoustic wave (SAW) mode inhabits the edge of the honeycomb phononic crystal in spite of the hybridization with the internal acoustic modes of the substrate. Pulse-type microwave impedance microscopy realizes clear visualization of the gigahertz topological edge mode between two mutually inverted topological phononic crystals. A frequency-dependent image shows that the edge mode evolves as the bulk SAW modes are suppressed owing to the energy gap formation, consistent with the topological nature. The realization of a topological waveguide in a simple pillar structure on a substrate might pave a new path to the development of topological SAW devices for a wide range of usages such as quantum computing, sensing, and communication applications.
Single-flux-quantum (SFQ) digital circuitry has great potential in building a scalable control system of superconducting qubits. In this work, we describe a practical SFQ-based two-qubit gate for transmon qubits. The controlled-Z (CZ) gate is activated by near-resonant SFQ-pulse trains near the target transition involving the second excited state. Numerical simulations show that the fidelity of a SFQ-activated CZ gate in excess of 99.9% is achievable within 100-ns gate time. We evaluate the CZ gate error caused by leakage and SFQ-pulse width. Combined with the proposed feasible expansion methods, this work is a supplement to the scalable and integratable superconducting-qubit control system based on SFQ digital logic.
The rapid progress of hole spin qubits in group IV semiconductors has been driven by their potential for scalability. This is due to the compatibility with industrial manufacturing standards, as well as the ease of operation and addressability via all-electric drives. However, owing to a strong spin-orbit interaction, these systems present variability and anisotropy in key qubit control parameters such as the Landé gfactor, requiring careful characterization for reliable qubit operation. Here, we experimentally investigate a hole double quantum dot in silicon by carrying out spin readout with gate-based reflectometry. We show that characteristic features in the reflected phase signal arising from magnetospectroscopy convey information on site-dependent g-factors in the two dots. Using analytical modeling, we extract the physical parameters of our system and, through numerical calculations, we extend the results to point to the prospect of conveniently extracting information about the local g-factors from reflectometry measurements.
We address the scaling-up problem for superconducting quantum circuits by using lumped-element resonators based on an alternative fabrication method of aluminum-aluminum oxide-aluminum (Al-AlO x -Al) parallel-plate capacitors. The size of the resonators is only 0.04 mm 2 , which is more than one order smaller than the typical size of coplanar resonators (1 mm 2 ). The fabrication method we develop easily fits into the standard superconducting qubit fabrication process. We obtain capacitance per area 14 fF/µm 2 and the internal quality factor 1 × 10 3 -8 × 10 3 at the single-photon level. Our results show that such devices based on Al-AlO x -Al capacitors could be further applied to the qubit readout scheme, including resonators, filters, amplifiers, as well as microwave metamaterials and innovative types of qubits, such as 0 -π qubit.
Neutral shallow donors (D 0 ) in ZnO have emerged as a promising candidate for solid-state spin qubits.
Processing quantum information using quantum three-level systems or qutrits as the fundamental unit is an alternative to contemporary qubit-based architectures with the potential to provide significant computational advantages. We demonstrate a fully programmable two-qutrit quantum processor by utilizing the third energy eigenstates of two transmons. We develop a parametric coupler to achieve excellent connectivity in the nine-dimensional Hilbert space enabling efficient implementations of two-qutrit gates. We characterize our processor by realizing several algorithms like Deutsch-Jozsa, Bernstein-Vazirani, and Grover's search. Our hardware-efficient protocols allow us to show that two stages of Grover's amplification can improve the success rates of an unstructured search with quantum advantage. Our results pave the way for building fully programmable ternary quantum processors using transmons as building blocks for a universal quantum computer.
Photon-number-resolving (PNR) single-photon detectors are an enabling technology in many areas, such as photonic quantum computing, nonclassical light-source characterization, and quantum imaging.
Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W states feature genuine tripartite entanglement that cannot be converted into each other by local operations and classical communication. Here, we present a dissipative protocol for deterministic interconversion between Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W states of three neutral 87 Rb atoms arranged in an equilateral triangle of a two-dimensional array. With three atomic levels and diagonal van der Waals interactions of Rydberg atoms, the interconversion between tripartite entangled states can be efficiently accomplished in the Floquet-Lindblad framework through the periodic optical pump and dissipation engineering. We evaluate the feasibility of the existing methodology using the experimental parameters accessible to current neutral-atom platforms. We find that our scheme is robust against typical noises, such as laser phase noise and geometric imperfections of the atom array. In addition, our scheme can integrate the Gaussian soft quantum control technique, which further reduces the overall conversion time and increases the resilience to timing errors and interatomic distance fluctuations. The high-fidelity and robust tripartite entanglement interconversion protocol provides a route to save physical resources and enhance the computational efficiency of quantum networks formed by neutral-atom arrays.
Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W states feature genuine tripartite entanglement that cannot be converted into each other by local operations and classical communication. Here, we present a dissipative protocol for deterministic interconversion between Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W states of three neutral 87 Rb atoms arranged in an equilateral triangle of a two-dimensional array. With three atomic levels and diagonal van der Waals interactions of Rydberg atoms, the interconversion between tripartite entangled states can be efficiently accomplished in the Floquet-Lindblad framework through the periodic optical pump and dissipation engineering. We evaluate the feasibility of the existing methodology using the experimental parameters accessible to current neutral-atom platforms. We find that our scheme is robust against typical noises, such as laser phase noise and geometric imperfections of the atom array. In addition, our scheme can integrate the Gaussian soft quantum control technique, which further reduces the overall conversion time and increases the resilience to timing errors and interatomic distance fluctuations. The high-fidelity and robust tripartite entanglement interconversion protocol provides a route to save physical resources and enhance the computational efficiency of quantum networks formed by neutral-atom arrays.
The long-lived and optically addressable spin states of silicon vacancies (V Si ) in 4H -SiC make them promising qubits for quantum communication and sensing. These color centers can be created in both the hexagonal (V1) and in the cubic (V2) local crystallographic environments of the 4H -SiC host. While the spin of the V2 center can be efficiently manipulated by optically detected magnetic resonance at room temperature, spin control of the V1 center above cryogenic temperatures has so far remained elusive. Here, we show that the dynamic strain of surface acoustic waves can overcome this limitation and efficiently excite magnetic resonances of V1 centers up to room temperature. Based on the width and temperature dependence of the acoustically induced spin resonances of the V1 centers, we attribute them to transitions between spin sublevels in the excited state. The acoustic spin control of both kinds of V Si centers in their excited states opens alternative ways for applications in quantum technologies based on spin optomechanics.
The long-lived and optically addressable spin states of silicon vacancies (V Si ) in 4H -SiC make them promising qubits for quantum communication and sensing. These color centers can be created in both the hexagonal (V1) and in the cubic (V2) local crystallographic environments of the 4H -SiC host. While the spin of the V2 center can be efficiently manipulated by optically detected magnetic resonance at room temperature, spin control of the V1 center above cryogenic temperatures has so far remained elusive. Here, we show that the dynamic strain of surface acoustic waves can overcome this limitation and efficiently excite magnetic resonances of V1 centers up to room temperature. Based on the width and temperature dependence of the acoustically induced spin resonances of the V1 centers, we attribute them to transitions between spin sublevels in the excited state. The acoustic spin control of both kinds of V Si centers in their excited states opens alternative ways for applications in quantum technologies based on spin optomechanics.
Controlling the flow of quantum information is a fundamental task for quantum computers, which is unfeasible to realize on classical devices. Coherent devices, which can process quantum states are thus required to route the quantum states that encode information. In this paper we demonstrate experimentally the smallest quantum transistor with a superconducting quantum processor, which is composed of a collector qubit, an emitter qubit, and a coupler (transistor gate). The interaction strength between the collector and emitter qubits is controlled by the frequency and state of the coupler, effectively implementing a quantum switch. Through the coupler-state-dependent Heisenberg (inherent) interaction between the qubits, a single-step (native) conditional iSWAP operation can be applied. To this end, we find that it is useful to take into consideration the higher-energy level for achieving a native and high-fidelity transistor operation. By reconstructing the quantum process tomography, we obtain an operation fidelity of 92.36% when the transistor gate is open (iSWAP implementation) and 95.23% in the case of closed gate (identity gate implementation). The architecture has strong potential in quantum information processing applications with superconducting qubits.
Controlling the flow of quantum information is a fundamental task for quantum computers, which is unfeasible to realize on classical devices. Coherent devices, which can process quantum states are thus required to route the quantum states that encode information. In this paper we demonstrate experimentally the smallest quantum transistor with a superconducting quantum processor, which is composed of a collector qubit, an emitter qubit, and a coupler (transistor gate). The interaction strength between the collector and emitter qubits is controlled by the frequency and state of the coupler, effectively implementing a quantum switch. Through the coupler-state-dependent Heisenberg (inherent) interaction between the qubits, a single-step (native) conditional iSWAP operation can be applied. To this end, we find that it is useful to take into consideration the higher-energy level for achieving a native and high-fidelity transistor operation. By reconstructing the quantum process tomography, we obtain an operation fidelity of 92.36% when the transistor gate is open (iSWAP implementation) and 95.23% in the case of closed gate (identity gate implementation). The architecture has strong potential in quantum information processing applications with superconducting qubits.
We show how to generate Bell states and N -partite W states of long-distance superconducting (SC) qubits in a SC waveguide QED system, where SC qubits are coupled to an open microwave transmission line. In the two-qubit case, the Bell state of two long-distance qubits can be a dark state of the system by choosing appropriate system parameters. If one proper microwave pulse drives one of two qubits, the two qubits will evolve from their ground states to a Bell state. Further, we extend this scheme to the multiqubit case. We show that W states of N long-distance qubits can also be generated. Because both the Bell and W states are decoupled from the waveguide (i.e., dark states of the system), they are steady and have very long lifetimes in the ideal case without decoherence of qubits. In contrast to the ideal case, the presence of decoherence of qubits limits the lifetimes of the Bell and W states. Our study provides an alternative scheme for generating Bell states and N -partite W states in SC waveguide QED, which can be used to entangle long-distance nodes in waveguide quantum networks.
171 Yb 3+ in YVO 4 is a promising candidate for building quantum networks with good optical addressability, excellent spin properties and a secondary nuclear-spin quantum register. However, the associated long optical lifetime necessitates coupling to optical resonators for faster emission of single photons and to facilitate control of single 171 Yb ions. Previously, single 171 Yb ions were addressed by coupling them to monolithic photonic crystal cavities fabricated via lengthy focused ion beam milling. Here, we design and fabricate a hybrid platform based on ions coupled to the evanescently decaying field of a GaAs photonic crystal cavity. For the most strongly coupled ion close to the GaAs-YVO interface, we find a 64-fold reduction in lifetime corresponding to a Purcell enhancement of 179. For an ion with a Purcell enhancement of 21, we experimentally detect and demonstrate coherent optical control. The results show a promising route toward a quantum network with 171 Yb-YVO 4 using a highly scalable platform that can readily be applied to other quantum emitters in the near-infrared.
We demonstrate a transmon-qubit readout based on the nonlinear response to a drive of polaritonic meters in situ coupled to the qubit. Inside a three-dimensional readout cavity, we place a transmon molecule consisting of a transmon qubit and an ancilla mode interacting via nonperturbative cross-Kerrcoupling. The cavity couples strongly only to the ancilla mode, leading to hybridized lower and upper polaritonic meters. Both polaritons are anharmonic and dissipative, as they inherit a self-Kerr nonlinearity U from the ancilla and effective decay κ from the open cavity. Via the ancilla, the polariton meters also inherit the nonperturbative cross-Kerr-coupling to the qubit. This results in a high qubit-dependent displacement 2χ > κ, U that can be read out via the cavity without causing Purcell decay. Moreover, the polariton meters, being nonlinear resonators, present bistability, and bifurcation behavior when the probing power increases. In this work, we focus on the bifurcation at low power in the few-photon regime, called the mesoscopic regime, which is accessible when the self-Kerr and decay rates of the polariton meter are similar, U ∼ κ. Capitalizing on a latching mechanism by bifurcation, the readout is sensitive to transmon-qubit relaxation error only in the first tens of nanoseconds. We thus report a single-shot fidelity of 98.6% while having an integration time of 500 ns and no requirement for an external quantum-limited amplifier.
The atomically precise placement of dopants in semiconductors using scanning tunneling microscopes has been used to create planar dopant-based devices, enabling the exploration of novel classical or quantum computing concepts, which often require precise control over tunneling rates in their operation. While the geometry of the dopants can be defined to subnanometer precision, imperfections can still play a significant role in determining the tunneling rates. Here we investigate the influence of different imperfections in phosphorus δ-layer tunnel junctions in silicon: variations of δ-layer thickness and tunnel gap width, interface roughness, and charged impurities. It is found that while most of the imperfections moderately affect the tunneling rate, a single charged impurity in the tunnel gap can alter the tunneling rate by more than an order of magnitude, even for relatively large tunnel gaps. Moreover, it is also revealed that the tunneling rate strongly depends on the electrical charge sign of the impurity.
The atomically precise placement of dopants in semiconductors using scanning tunneling microscopes has been used to create planar dopant-based devices, enabling the exploration of novel classical or quantum computing concepts, which often require precise control over tunneling rates in their operation. While the geometry of the dopants can be defined to subnanometer precision, imperfections can still play a significant role in determining the tunneling rates. Here we investigate the influence of different imperfections in phosphorus δ-layer tunnel junctions in silicon: variations of δ-layer thickness and tunnel gap width, interface roughness, and charged impurities. It is found that while most of the imperfections moderately affect the tunneling rate, a single charged impurity in the tunnel gap can alter the tunneling rate by more than an order of magnitude, even for relatively large tunnel gaps. Moreover, it is also revealed that the tunneling rate strongly depends on the electrical charge sign of the impurity.
Superconducting cavities have emerged as a key tool for measuring the spin states of quantum dots. So far, however, few experiments have explored longitudinal couplings between quantum dots and cavities, and no solid-state qubit experiments have explicitly probed the "adiabatic" regime, where the Purcell decay is strongly suppressed. Here we report measurements of a double-quantum-dot charge qubit coupled to a high-impedance resonator via a "flip-chip" design geometry. By applying an adiabatic ac drive to the qubit through two different channels, and studying the effects of qubit energy detuning, interdot tunneling, and driving strength, we are able to unequivocally confirm the presence of a longitudinal coupling between the qubit and the cavity, while the qubit remains in its ground state. Since this coupling is proportional to the driving amplitude, and is therefore switchable, it has the potential to become a powerful tool in qubit experiments.
Superconducting cavities have emerged as a key tool for measuring the spin states of quantum dots. So far, however, few experiments have explored longitudinal couplings between quantum dots and cavities, and no solid-state qubit experiments have explicitly probed the "adiabatic" regime, where the Purcell decay is strongly suppressed. Here we report measurements of a double-quantum-dot charge qubit coupled to a high-impedance resonator via a "flip-chip" design geometry. By applying an adiabatic ac drive to the qubit through two different channels, and studying the effects of qubit energy detuning, interdot tunneling, and driving strength, we are able to unequivocally confirm the presence of a longitudinal coupling between the qubit and the cavity, while the qubit remains in its ground state. Since this coupling is proportional to the driving amplitude, and is therefore switchable, it has the potential to become a powerful tool in qubit experiments.
Kerr cat qubits are a promising candidate for fault-tolerant quantum computers owing to the biased nature of their errors. The ZZ coupling between the qubits can be utilized for a two-qubit entangling gate, but the residual coupling called ZZ crosstalk is detrimental to precise computing. In order to resolve this problem, we propose a tunable ZZ-coupling scheme using two transmon couplers. By setting the detunings of the two couplers at opposite values, the residual ZZ couplings via the two couplers cancel each other out. We also apply our scheme to the R ZZ ( ) gate (ZZ rotation with angle ), one of the two-qubit entangling gates. We numerically show that the fidelity of the R ZZ (-π/2) gate is higher than 99.9% in a case of 16-ns gate time and without decoherence.
Single-photon detection played an important role in the development of quantum optics. Its implementation in the microwave domain is challenging because the photon energy is five orders of magnitude smaller. In recent years, significant progress has been made in developing single microwave photon detectors (SMPDs) based on superconducting quantum bits or bolometers. In this paper we present a practical SMPD based on the irreversible transfer of an incoming photon to the excited state of a transmon qubit by a four-wave mixing process. This device achieves a detection efficiency η = 0.43 and an operational dark count rate α = 85 s -1 , mainly due to the out-of-equilibrium microwave photons in the input line. The corresponding power sensitivity is S = 10 -22 W/ √ Hz, one order of magnitude lower than the state of the art. The detector operates continuously over hour time-scales with a duty cycle η D = 0.84, and offers frequency tunability of at least 50 MHz around 7 GHz.
Dispersive readout, the current standard for measuring superconducting qubits, relies on relatively easy to engineer, static transverse coupling between a qubit and a detuned cavity mode. However, this method requires circuit design trade-offs between qubit-cavity coupling, cavity-feedline coupling, detuning, and the resultant decoherence introduced by the cavity mode. Additionally, the criteria for performing quantum nondemolition measurements, including reduced cavity photon numbers, further limits speed and fidelity. In this work, we introduce a circuit with pulse-tunable qubit-cavity and cavity-feedline couplings so that the entire qubit-measurement process can be fully optimized. Here, the core measurement process resembles a quantum gate operation between the qubit and the cavity, with the cavity acting like an ancilla, storing the qubit-state information. To fully explore time-dependent effects of the full qubit-cavity dynamics, we go beyond the rotating-wave, Jaynes-Cummings, or dispersive approximations, to develop a pulsed-measurement protocol. In addition, we propose a realistic circuit architecture that can provide a very fast, high-fidelity, QND measurement with near-unit efficiency.
High-fidelity universal quantum gates are widely acknowledged as essential for scalable quantum computation. However, in solid-state quantum systems, which hold promise as physical implementation platforms for quantum computation, the inevitable ZZ crosstalk resulting from interqubit interactions significantly impairs quantum operation performance. Here we propose a scalable protocol to achieve ZZ-crosstalk mitigation in universal quantum gates. This method converts the noisy Hamiltonian with ZZ crosstalk into a framework that efficiently suppresses all ZZ-crosstalk effects, leading to ideal target quantum operations. Specifically, we first analytically derive the ZZ-crosstalk mitigation conditions and then apply them to enhance the performance of target universal quantum gates. Moreover, numerical simulations validate the effectiveness of ZZ-crosstalk mitigation when multiple qubit gates operate concurrently. As a result, our protocol presents a promising approach for implementing practical parallel quantum gates in large-scale quantum computation scenarios.
and Michele Mosca, Phys. Rev. Lett. 122, 220501 (2019).
The Toffoli gate takes a special place in the quantum information theory. It opens up a path for efficient implementation of complex quantum algorithms. Despite tremendous progress of the quantum processors based on the superconducting qubits, realization of a high-fidelity three-qubit operation is still a challenging problem. Here, we propose a way to perform a high-fidelity CCZ gate on fluxoniums capacitively connected via a transmon qubit, activated by a microwave pulse on the coupler. The main advantages of the approach are relative quickness, simplicity of calibration and significant suppression of the unwanted longitudinal ZZ interaction. We provide numerical simulation of a 95-ns-long gate of higher than 99.99% fidelity with realistic circuit parameters in the noiseless model and estimate an error of about 0.25% under the conventional decoherence rates.
The Toffoli gate takes a special place in the quantum information theory. It opens up a path for efficient implementation of complex quantum algorithms. Despite tremendous progress of the quantum processors based on the superconducting qubits, realization of a high-fidelity three-qubit operation is still a challenging problem. Here, we propose a way to perform a high-fidelity CCZ gate on fluxoniums capacitively connected via a transmon qubit, activated by a microwave pulse on the coupler. The main advantages of the approach are relative quickness, simplicity of calibration and significant suppression of the unwanted longitudinal ZZ interaction. We provide numerical simulation of a 95-ns-long gate of higher than 99.99% fidelity with realistic circuit parameters in the noiseless model and estimate an error of about 0.25% under the conventional decoherence rates.
Reducing errors in quantum gates is critical to the development of quantum computers. To do so, any distortions in the control signals should be identified; however, conventional tools are not always applicable when part of the system is under high vacuum, cryogenic, or microscopic. Here, we demonstrate a method to detect and compensate for amplitude-dependent phase changes, using the qubit itself as a probe. The technique is implemented using a microwave-driven trapped-ion qubit, where correcting phase distortions leads to a threefold improvement in the error of single-qubit gates implemented with pulses of different amplitudes, to attain state-of-the-art performance benchmarked at 1.6(4) × 10 -6 error per Clifford gate.
Reducing errors in quantum gates is critical to the development of quantum computers. To do so, any distortions in the control signals should be identified; however, conventional tools are not always applicable when part of the system is under high vacuum, cryogenic, or microscopic. Here, we demonstrate a method to detect and compensate for amplitude-dependent phase changes, using the qubit itself as a probe. The technique is implemented using a microwave-driven trapped-ion qubit, where correcting phase distortions leads to a threefold improvement in the error of single-qubit gates implemented with pulses of different amplitudes, to attain state-of-the-art performance benchmarked at 1.6(4) × 10 -6 error per Clifford gate.
Engineering high-fidelity two-qubit gates is an indispensable step toward practical quantum computing. For superconducting quantum platforms, one important setback is the stray interaction between qubits, which causes significant coherent errors. For transmon qubits, protocols for mitigating such errors usually involve fine-tuning the hardware parameters or introducing usually noisy flux-tunable couplers. In this work, we propose a simple scheme to cancel these stray interactions. The coupler used for such cancelation is a driven high-coherence resonator, where the amplitude and frequency of the drive serve as control knobs. Through the resonator-induced-phase interaction, the static ZZ coupling can be entirely neutralized. We numerically show that such a scheme can enable short and high-fidelity entangling gates, including cross-resonance controlled-NOT (CNOT) gates within 40 ns and adiabatic controlled-Z gates within 140 ns. Our architecture is not only ZZ-free, but also contains no extra noisy components, such that it preserves the coherence times of fixed-frequency transmon qubits. With the state-of-the-art coherence times, the error of our cross-resonance CNOT gate can be reduced to below 10 -4 .
Optical illumination of quantum dot qubit devices at cryogenic temperatures, while not well studied, is often used to recover operating conditions after undesired shocking events or charge injection. Here, we demonstrate systematic threshold-voltage shifts in a dopant-free Si/Si 0.7 Ge 0.3 field-effect transistor using a near-infrared (780-nm) laser diode. We find that illumination under an applied gate voltage can be used to set a specific, stable, and reproducible threshold voltage that, over a wide range in gate bias, is equal to that gate bias. Outside this range, the threshold voltage can still be tuned, although the resulting threshold voltage is no longer equal to the applied gate bias during illumination. We present a simple and intuitive model that provides a mechanism for the tunability in the gate bias. The model presented also explains why cryogenic illumination is successful at resetting quantum dot qubit devices after undesired charging events.
Detuning a superconducting qubit from its rotating frame is one means to implement a Z-gate operation. In this work, we implement a Z gate by pulsing a current through the qubit's readout dc SQUID. While the dc SQUID acts as a magnetic flux sensor for qubit readout, we in turn may use it as a flux actuator with tunable strength to impose a qubit frequency shift. Using this approach, we demonstrate Ramsey-type free-induction experiments with time constants as long as 280 ns and rotation frequencies as high as 1.4 GHz. We experimentally demonstrate an inferred Z-gate fidelity of approximately 90%, limited largely by the bandwidth of our system. In the absence of this limitation, we argue that the inferred fidelity may be improved to as high as 99%.
We report on transport in the second Landau level in in situ back-gated two-dimensional electron gases in GaAs=Al x Ga 1-x As quantum wells. Minimization of gate leakage is the primary heterostructure design consideration. Leakage currents resulting in dissipation as small as ∼10 pW can cause noticeable heating of the electrons at 10 mK, limiting the formation of novel correlated states. We show that when the heterostructure design is properly optimized, gate voltages as large as 4 V can be applied with negligible gate leakage, allowing the density to be tuned over a large range from depletion to over 4 × 10 11 cm -2 . As a result, the strength of the ν ¼ 5=2 state can be continuously tuned from onset at n ∼ 1.2 × 10 11 cm -2 to a maximum Δ 5=2 ¼ 625 mK at n ¼ 3.35 × 10 11 cm -2 . An unusual evolution of the reentrant-integer quantum Hall states as a function of density is also reported. These devices can be expected to be useful in experiments aimed at proving the existence of non-Abelian phases useful for topological quantum computation.
Point defects in solids promise precise measurements of various quantities. Especially magnetic field sensing using the spin of point defects has been of great interest recently. When optical readout of spin states is used, point defects achieve optical magnetic imaging with high spatial resolution at ambient conditions. Here, we demonstrate that genuine optical vector magnetometry can be realized using the silicon vacancy in SiC, which has an uncommon S ¼ 3=2 spin. To this end, we develop and experimentally test sensing protocols based on a reference field approach combined with multifrequency spin excitation. Our work suggests that the silicon vacancy in an industry-friendly platform, SiC, has the potential for various magnetometry applications under ambient conditions.
We experimentally investigate a cascade of temperature-compensated unequal-path interferometers that can be used to measure frequency states in a high-dimensional quantum distribution system. In particular, we demonstrate that commercially available interferometers have sufficient environmental isolation so that they maintain an interference visibility greater than 98.5% at a wavelength of 1550 nm over extended periods with only moderate passive control of the interferometer temperature (< AE 0.50 °C). Specifically, we characterize two interferometers that have matched delays: one with a free spectral range of 2.5 GHz and the other with 1.25 GHz. We find that the relative path of these interferometers drifts less than 3 nm over a period of 1 h during which the temperature fluctuates by < AE 0.10 °C. When we purposely heat the interferometers over a temperature range of 20-50 °C, we measure a path-length shift of 26 AE 9 nm=°C for the 2.5-GHz interferometer. For the 1.25-GHz interferometer, the path-length shift is nonlinear and is locally equal to zero at a temperature of 37.1 °C and is 50 AE 17 nm=°C at 22 °C. With these devices, we realize a proof-of-concept quantum key distribution experiment and achieve quantum bit error rates of 1.94% and 3.69% in time and frequency basis, respectively, at a quantum channel loss of 14 dB.
We demonstrate hybrid photoelectric pulse protocols for reading the spin states of nitrogen-vacancy (N-V) centers in diamond, compatible with coherent spin control and performed on shallow nitrogen-implanted electronic grade diamond. The measurements are carried out on spin ensembles from 1000 to just five N-V centers as a first step towards the fabrication of scalable photoelectric quantum chips. Specific microwave protocols are developed that suppress background photocurrent related to ionization of N S 0 defects and provide a high contrast and SNR. The technique is demonstrated on Rabi and Ramsey sequences.
We identified a typographical error in the calculation script used to estimate the In-Au-Al seam loss of the multilayer microwave-integrated quantum circuit (MMIQC) devices modes appearing in Table 
We report the development of niobium nitride (NbN)-based ferromagnetic π Josephson junctions. For fabricated NbN=copper-nickel ðCuNiÞ=NbN junctions, we measure the ferromagnetic CuNi thickness and temperature dependences of the Josephson critical current and find the cusp structure indicating the transition between the 0 and π states. We also observe the characteristic temperature dependences for the junctions with CuNi thicknesses near the 0-π transition thickness, which originate from the interplay between superconductivity and magnetism. The experimental results are consistently explained by the microscopic theory with reasonable physical parameters. The developed NbN-based π junctions are compatible with and provide advantages for superconducting logic circuits and/or quantum computers based on nitride superconductors.
We investigate nuclear spin hyperpolarization from optically polarized nitrogen vacancy centers in isotopically enriched diamonds with 13 C concentrations up to 100%. 13 C enrichment leads to a nitrogen vacancy electron spin resonance with a complex hyperfine structure and dynamic nuclear polarization enhancement profile. We show that strongly coupled 13 C spins in the first shell surrounding a nitrogen vacancy center generate resolved hyperfine splittings, but do not act as an intermediary in the transfer of hyperpolarization of bulk nuclear spins. High levels of 13 C enrichment are desirable to increase the efficiency of hyperpolarization for magnetic resonance signal enhancement, imaging contrast agents, and as a platform for quantum sensing and many-body physics.
Superconductors with topological surface or edge states have been intensively explored for the prospect of realizing Majorana bound states, which obey non-Abelian statistics and are crucial for topological quantum computation. The traditional routes for making topological insulator/superconductor and semiconductor/superconductor heterostructures suffer fabrication difficulties and can only work at low temperature. Here, we use angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy to directly observe the evolution of a topological transition of band structure nearby the Fermi level in two-dimensional high-T c superconductor FeTe 1-x Se x /SrTiO 3 (001) monolayers, fully consistent with our theoretical calculations. Furthermore, evidence of edge states is revealed by scanning tunneling spectroscopy with assistance of theoretical calculations. Our study provides a simple and tunable platform for realizing and manipulating Majorana states at high temperature.
Electric fields are increasingly used for coherently manipulating spin states in semiconductor and molecular systems. Here we discuss the spin manipulation allowed by the modulation of the main parameters entering the Hamiltonians of molecular spin clusters. In particular, we focus on transitions between states that differ in terms of scalar quantities, such as the total-or the partial-spin sums, but have vanishing expectation values of both the total-and the single-spin projections. These conditions supposedly define subspaces that are immune to the main decoherence mechanisms and that cannot be identified in individual spins, where the total-and the partial-spin sums are fixed or cannot be defined. We show that the desired transitions can in principle be realized in systems as simple as a spin dimer, by modulating the g-factor, the axial anisotropy, or, under suitable conditions, the exchange interaction.
Materials exhibiting topological order host exotic phenomena that could form the basis for novel developments in areas ranging from low-power electronics to quantum computers. The past decade has witnessed multiple experimental realizations and thousands of predictions of topological materials. However, it has been determined that increasing temperature destroys topological order, restricting many topological materials to very low temperatures and thus hampering practical applications. Here, we propose a material realization of temperaturepromoted topological order. We show that a semiconducting oxide that has been widely used in lead-acid batteries, β-PbO 2 , hosts a topological semimetallic phase driven by both thermal expansion and electron-phonon coupling upon increasing temperature. We identify the interplay between the quasi-two-dimensional nature of the charge distribution of the valence band with the three-dimensional nature of the charge distribution of the conduction band as the microscopic mechanism driving this unconventional temperature dependence. Thus, we propose a general principle to search for and design topological materials whose topological order is stabilized by increasing temperature. This provides a clear roadmap for taking topological materials from the laboratory to technological devices.
Measurements of proton nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H NMR) spectra and relaxation and of muon spin relaxation (μ + SR) have been performed as a function of temperature and external magnetic field on two isostructural lanthanide complexes, Er(trensal) and Dy(trensal) [where H 3 trensal = 2, 2 , 2tris -(salicylideneimino)triethylamine], featuring crystallographically imposed trigonal symmetry. Both the nuclear 1/T 1 and muon λ longitudinal relaxation rates (LRRs) exhibit a peak for temperatures T < 30 K, associated to the slowing down of the spin dynamics, and the width of the NMR absorption spectra starts to increase significantly at T ∼ 50 K, a temperature sizably higher than the one of the LRR peaks. The LRR peaks have a field and temperature dependence different from those previously reported for all molecular nanomagnets. They do not follow the Bloembergen-Purcell-Pound scaling of the amplitude and position in temperature and field and thus cannot be explained in terms of a single dominating correlation time τ c determined by the spin slowing down at low temperature. Further, for T < 50 K the spectral width does not follow the temperature behavior of the magnetic susceptibility χ . We suggest, using simple qualitative considerations, that the observed behavior is due to a combination of two different relaxation processes characterized by the correlation times τ LT and τ HT , dominating for T < 30 K and T > 50 K, respectively. Finally, the observed flattening of LRR for T < 5 K is suggested to have a quantum origin.
Atomlike defect levels in silicon carbide (SiC) polytypes have been proposed and proven to be an excellent platform for various quantum technology applications. Single-photon emitters, coherent control at room temperature, and temperature and magnetic field sensing at the nanoscale have already been demonstrated for the case of vacancy and divacancy defects in SiC and more recently proposed for negatively charged NV centers. NV centers, which allow a better control of their generation, offer in addition a further shift of the spectral range in the near infrared, i.e., in the O-and S-band telecom range. We demonstrate here that the association of high resolution optical spectroscopy and electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy combined with first-principles calculations allow the identification of the microscopic structure of the six distinct NV centers in 6H-SiC and the assignment of their associated zero-phonon photoluminescence lines. Time resolved photo-EPR measurements at T = 4 K show that NV centers in 6H-SiC present spin lattice relaxation times of several seconds. These excellent qubit properties should enable their application and implementation in quantum information devices.
We explore an unusual type of quantum matter that can be realized by qubits having different physical origins. Interactions in this matter are described by essentially different coupling operators for all qubits. We show that the simplest such models, which can be realized with localized states in Dirac materials, satisfy integrability conditions that we use to describe pseudospin dynamics in a linearly time-dependent magnetic field. Generalizing to an arbitrary number of qubits, we construct a spin Hamiltonian, which we call the γ -magnet. This system does not conserve polarization of any spin and the net spin polarization. Nevertheless, for arbitrarily strong interactions, nonadiabatic dynamics, and any initial eigenstate, we find that quantum interference suppresses spin flips. This behavior resembles many-body localization but occurs in phase space of many spins rather than real space. This effect may not have a counterpart in classical physics and can be a signature of a new type of spin ordering, which is different from both disordered spin glasses and ordered phases of spin lattices.
We studied the magnetic properties, in particular dynamics, of the correlated spins associated with natural defects in the organic spin chain compounds (o -DMTTF) 2 X (X = Br, Cl) by means of electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy. Both materials exhibit spin-Peierls transitions at temperatures around 50 K [P. Foury-Leylekian et al., Phys. Rev. B 84, 195134 (2011)], which allow a separation of the properties of defects inside the chains from the magnetic response of the spin chains. Indeed, continuous-wave ESR measurements performed over a wide temperature range evidence the evolution of the spin dynamics from being governed by the spins in the chains at elevated temperatures to a low-temperature regime which is dominated by defects within the spin-dimerized chains. Such defects polarize the antiferromagnetically coupled spins in their vicinity, thereby leading to a finite local alternating magnetization around the defect site which can be described in terms of a soliton, i.e., a spin-1 2 quasiparticle built of many correlated spins, pinned to the defect. In addition, contributions of triplon excitations of the spin-dimerized state to the ESR response below the transition temperature were observed, which provides a spectroscopic estimate for the spin gap of the studied systems. Moreover, details of spin dynamics deep in the spin-Peierls phase were investigated by pulse ESR experiments which revealed Rabi oscillations as signatures of coherent spin dynamics. The latter is a prerequisite for a selective manipulation of the defect-induced soliton spin states which is, for instance, relevant in the context of quantum computation. From a comparison of the characteristic damping times of the Rabi oscillations with measurements of the spin relaxation times by means of primary-echo decay and Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill methods, it becomes evident that inhomogeneities in local magnetic fields strongly contribute to the soliton decoherence.
Discovery of the new two-dimensional (2D) Dirac semimetals incorporating both superconductivity and the topological band structure has provided a novel platform for realizing the intriguing applications of Dirac fermions and Majorana quasiparticles, ranging from high-speed quantum devices at the nanoscale to topological quantum computations. In this work, utilizing first-principles calculations and symmetry analysis, we introduce MOH (M = Zr, Hf) as a new topological superconductor with Dirac points close to a Fermi level which are connected with nearly flat edge states as a striking feature of topological semimetals. Our calculations show that ZrOH as a 2D topological semimetal can exhibit superconductivity and is a novel platform for studying the interplay between superconductivity and Dirac states in low-dimensional materials.
We present first-principles calculations of the magnetic and orbital properties of Ba 2 NaOsO 6 (BNOO), a 5d 1 Mott insulator with strong spin-orbit coupling (SOC) in its low-temperature emergent quantum phases. Our computational method takes into direct consideration recent NMR results that established that BNOO develops a local octahedral distortion preceding the formation of long-range magnetic order. We found that the two-sublattice canted ferromagnetic ground state identified in Lu et al., [Nat. Commun. 8, 14407 (2017)] is accompanied by a two-sublattice staggered orbital ordering pattern in which the t 2g orbitals are selectively occupied as a result of strong spin-orbit coupling. The staggered orbital order found here using first-principles calculations asserts the previous proposal of Chen et al., [Phys. Rev. B 82, 174440 (2010).] and Lu et  al., [Nat. Commun. 8, 14407 (2017).] that a two-sublattice magnetic structure is the very manifestation of staggered quadrupolar order. Therefore, our results affirm the essential role of multipolar spin interactions in the microscopic description of magnetism in systems with locally entangled spin and orbital degrees of freedom.
A common path to superconducting spintronics, Majorana fermions, and topologically protected quantum computing relies on spin-triplet superconductivity. While naturally occurring spin-triplet pairing is elusive, and even common spin-triplet candidates, such as Sr 2 RuO 4 , support alternative explanations, proximity effects in heterostructures can overcome these limitations. It is expected that robust spin-triplet superconductivity in magnetic junctions should rely on highly spin-polarized magnets or complex magnetic multilayers. Instead, we predict that the interplay of interfacial spin-orbit coupling and the barrier strength in simple magnetic junctions, with only a small spin polarization and s-wave superconductors, can lead to nearly complete spintriplet superconducting proximity effects. This peculiar behavior arises from an effective perfect transparency: interfacial spin-orbit coupling counteracts the native potential barrier for states of a given spin and wave vector. We show that the enhanced spin-triplet regime is characterized by a huge increase in conductance magnetoanisotropy, orders of magnitude larger than in the normal state.
We consider the interaction between acceptor pairs in doped semiconductors in the limit of large interacceptor separation relevant for low doping densities. Modeling individual acceptors via the spherical model of Baldereschi and Lipari, we calculate matrix elements of the quadrupole tensor between the four degenerate ground states and show that the acceptor has a nonzero quadrupole moment. As a result, the dominant contribution to the large-separation acceptor-acceptor interaction comes from direct (charge-density) terms rather than exchange terms. The quadrupole is the leading nonzero moment, so the electric quadrupole-quadrupole interaction dominates for large separation. We calculate the matrix elements of the quadrupole-quadrupole interaction Hamiltonian in a product-state basis and diagonalize, obtaining a closed-form expression for the energies and degeneracies of the sixteen-state energy spectrum. All dependence on material parameters enters via an overall prefactor, resulting in surprisingly simple and universal results. This simplicity is due, in part, to a mathematical happenstance, the nontrivial vanishing of a particular Wigner 6j symbol, {
Controlled adiabatic transfer of a single electron through a chain of quantum dots has been recently achieved in GaAs and Si/SiGe based quantum dots, opening prospects for turning stationary spin qubits into mobile ones and solving in this way the problem of long-distance communication between quantum registers in a scalable quantum computing architecture based on quantum dots. We consider theoretically the process of such an electron transfer between two tunnel-coupled quantum dots, focusing on control by slowly varying the detuning of energy levels in the dots. We take into account the fluctuations in detuning caused by 1/ f -type noise that is ubiquitous in semiconductor nanostructures and analyze their influence on probability of successful transfer of an electron in a spin eigenstate. With numerical and analytical calculations we show that probability of electron not being transferred due to 1/ f β noise in detuning is ∝ σ 2 t β-1 /v, where σ characterizes the noise amplitude, t is the interdot tunnel coupling, and v is the detuning sweep rate. Interestingly, this means that the noise-induced errors in charge transfer are independent of t for 1/ f noise. For realistic parameters taken from experiments on silicon-based quantum dots, we obtain the minimal probability of charge transfer failure between a pair of dots is limited by 1/ f noise in detuning to be the on the order of 0.01. This means that in order to reliably transfer charges across many quantum dots, charge noise in the devices should be further suppressed, or tunnel couplings should be increased, in order to allow for faster transfer (and less exposure to noise), while not triggering the deterministic Landau-Zener excitation.
Kitaev quantum spin liquids described by the Kitaev model represent an exotic state of matter with long-range entangled spins and topological order, which hold promise for quantum computation. α-RuCl 3 , a material with van der Waals layered structure, is shown to be proximate to such a state recently. Here we report Raman spectroscopy of atomically thin α-RuCl 3 . New phonon modes emerge at low temperature, signifying a phase transition to a crystal structure with lowered symmetry. The Fano line shape of two low-energy phonon modes and the magnetic scattering continuum in bulk α-RuCl 3 , which evidence fractionalized Majorana fermions of the proximate quantum spin liquid, persist to the trilayer. Polarization-dependent measurements reveal increased anisotropy of the Kitaev exchange constants when approaching the two-dimensional limit. Our results demonstrate an intimate relation between the crystal structure and the symmetry of the proximate quantum spin liquid ground state.
The Zeeman interaction is a quantum mechanical effect that underpins spin-based quantum devices such as spin qubits. Typically, identification of the Zeeman interaction needs a large out-of-plane magnetic field coupled with ultralow temperatures, which limits the practicality of spin-based devices. However, in two-dimensional (2D) semiconductor holes, the strong spin-orbit interaction causes the Zeeman interaction to couple the spin, the magnetic field, and the momentum, and has terms with different winding numbers. In this work, we demonstrate a physical mechanism by which the Zeeman terms can be detected in classical transport. The effect we predict is very strong, and tunable by means of both the density and the in-plane magnetic field. It is a direct signature of the topological properties of the 2D hole system, and a manifestation in classical transport of an effect stemming from relativistic quantum mechanics. We discuss experimental observation and implications for quantum technologies.
Silicon carbide (SiC) hosts many interesting defects that can potentially serve as qubits for a range of advanced quantum technologies. Some of them have very interesting properties, making them potentially useful, e.g., as interfaces between stationary and flying qubits. Here we present a detailed overview of the relevant properties of the spins in silicon vacancies of the 6H -SiC polytype. This includes the temperature-dependent photoluminescence, optically detected magnetic resonance, and the relaxation times of the longitudinal and transverse components of the spins during free precession as well as under the influence of different refocusing schemes.
The emergence of unconventional superconductivity is generally considered to be related to spin fluctuations. Unveiling the intriguing behaviors of spin fluctuations in parent compounds with layered transition-metal ions may shed light on the search for exotic unconventional superconductors. Here, based on the framework of the first-principles calculations, we theoretically propose that LaCoSb 2 is a weak antiferromagnetic layered metal with an in-plane ferromagnetic moment of 0.88μ B at the Co sites, as a candidate parent compound of the cobalt-based superconductors. Importantly, this theoretical finding is experimentally supported by our magnetization measurements on polycrystalline samples of LaCo 0.78 Sb 2 . Following the symmetry analysis, we suggest a possible p-wave superconductivity hosted in doped LaCoSb 2 emerging at the verge of ferromagnetic spin fluctuations, which implies potential applications in topological quantum computing in future.
We investigate the spin-1/2 Heisenberg antiferromagnet on a kagome lattice with breathing anisotropy (i.e., with weak and strong triangular units), constructing an improved simplex resonating valence bond (RVB) ansatz by successive applications (up to three times) of local quantum gates, which implement a filtering operation on the bare nearest-neighbor RVB state. The resulting projected entangled pair state involves a small number of variational parameters (only one at each level of application) and preserves full lattice and spin-rotation symmetries. Despite its simple analytic form, the simplex RVB provides very good variational energies at strong and even intermediate breathing anisotropy. We show that it carries Z 2 topological order which does not fade away under the first few applications of the quantum gates, suggesting that the RVB topological spin liquid becomes a competing ground state candidate for the kagome antiferromagnet at large breathing anisotropy.
The relaxation of a many-body system is still a challenging problem that has not been well understood. In this work we exactly calculate the dynamics of the quantum XY model with boundary dissipation, in which the density matrix in terms of Majorana operators can be decoupled into independent subspaces K i represented by different number of Majorana fermions. The relaxation is characterized by multiple timescales, and in the longtime limit it is determined by the single-particle relaxation process in a typical timescale T * . For the bulk bands, we find T * ∝ N 3 /γ n 2 in the weak dissipation limit and T * ∝ γ N 3 /n 2 in the strong dissipation limit, where N is the chain length, γ is the dissipation rate, and n is the band index. For the edge modes, T * ∝ 1/γ indicates the most vulnerable to dissipation in the long-chain limit. These results are counterintuitive because it means any weak dissipation can induce strong relaxation, while strong dissipation can induce weak relaxation. We find that these two limits correspond to two different physics, which are explained based on the first-and second-order perturbation theory in an equivalent non-Hermitian model. Finally, we show that even in the long-chain limit with weak dissipation, the relaxation may exhibit strong odd-even effect, which can be washed out by the strong dissipation. These results shed new insight into the dynamics of topological qubits in the environment, and the mechanism for many-body dissipation may also have universal significance in understanding the many-body dissipation in the other models.
A calculation of the photonic Green's tensor of a structure is at the heart of many photonic problems, but for nontrivial nanostructures, it is typically a prohibitively time-consuming task. Recently, a general normal-mode expansion (GENOME) was implemented to construct the Green's tensor from eigenpermittivity modes. Here, we employ GENOME to study the response of a cluster of nanoparticles. To this end, we use the rigorous mode-hybridization theory derived earlier by D. J. Bergman [Phys. Rev. B 19, 2359 (1979)], which constructs the Green's tensor of a cluster of nanoparticles from the sole knowledge of the modes of the isolated constituent. The method is applied to a scatterer with a nontrivial shape (namely, a pair of elliptical wires) within a fully electrodynamic setting and for the computation of the Purcell enhancement and Förster resonant energy transfer rate enhancement, showing good agreement with direct simulations. The procedure is general, is trivial to implement using standard electromagnetic software, and holds for arbitrary shapes and number of scatterers forming the cluster. Moreover, it is orders of magnitude faster than conventional direct simulations for applications requiring the spatial variation of the Green's tensor, promising wide use in quantum technologies, free-electron light sources, and heat transfer, among others.
Topological transition-metal dichalcogenides have been the center of research interests in materials science, recent days, due to their potential applications in spintronics, optoelectronics, and quantum computations. In this paper, using angle resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) and density functional theory (DFT) calculations, we systematically studied the low-energy electronic structure of bulk ZrTe 2 . ARPES studies on ZrTe 2 demonstrate free charge carriers at the Fermi level, which is further confirmed by the DFT calculations. An equal hole and electron carrier density estimated from the ARPES data points to ZrTe 2 being a semimetal. The DFT calculations further suggest a band inversion between Te p and Zr d states at the point, hinting at the nontrivial band topology in ZrTe 2 . Thus our studies suggest that ZrTe 2 is a topological semimetal. Also, a comparative band structure study is done on ZrSe 2 , which shows a semiconducting nature of the electronic structure with an indirect band gap of 0.9 eV between (A) and M(L) high-symmetry points. Below we show that the metal-chalcogen bond length plays a critical role in the electronic phase transition from a semiconductor to a topological semimetal ingoing from ZrSe 2 to ZrTe 2 .
Spins in solids are an ideal candidate to act as a memory and interface with superconducting qubits due to their long coherence times. We spectroscopically investigate erbium-167-doped yttrium orthosilicate as a possible microwave-addressed memory employing its microwave frequency transitions that occur without applying an external magnetic field. We obtain coherence times of 380 μs in a ground state spin transition and 1.48 ms in an excited state spin transition. This is 28 times longer compared to previous zero field measurements, as well as 200 times longer than a previous microwave memory demonstration in the same material. These long coherence times show that erbium-167-doped yttrium orthosilicate has potential as a microwave-addressed quantum memory.
Searching for the p + ip superconducting (SC) state has become a fascinating subject in condensed matter physics recently, as a dream application awaiting in topological quantum computation. Unfortunately, so far there is no universal principle for realizing p + ip in generic solid-state systems. Here we report a theoretical discovery of a p + ip SC ground state (coexisting with ferromagnetic order) in the honeycomb lattice Hubbard model in the extremely strong-coupling limit (e.g., infinite U ) at low doping (δ < 0.2), by using both the state-of-art Grassmann tensor product state approach and a continuum quantum field theory approach. Our discovery suggests a mechanism for the p + ip SC state in generic strongly correlated systems based on spincharge separation and the charge current-current coupling scenario, which opens a door towards experimental realization. The p + ip SC state has an instability towards a potential non-Fermi liquid with a large but finite U . Nevertheless, by applying an in-plane Zeeman field, such a p + ip SC state can be stabilized with finite U in a very wide range of doping. Relevant realistic materials are also proposed.
Spin orbit assisted Mott insulators such as sodium iridate (Na 2 IrO 3 ) have been an important subject of study in recent years. In these materials, the interplay of electronic correlations, spin-orbit coupling, crystal field effects, and a honeycomb arrangement of ions bring exciting ground states, predicted in the frame of the Kitaev model. The insulating character of Na 2 IrO 3 has hampered its integration to an electronic device, desirable for applications, such as the manipulation of quasiparticles interesting for topological quantum computing. Here we show through electronic transport measurements supported by angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) experiments, that electronic transport in Na 2 IrO 3 is ruled by variable range hopping and it is strongly dependent on the magnetic ordering transition known for bulk Na 2 IrO 3 , as well as on external electric fields. Electronic transport measurements allow us to deduce a value for the localization length and the density of states in our Na 2 IrO 3 thin crystal devices, and offer an alternative approach to study insulating 2D-materials.
We study Landau-Zener-Stückelberg (LZS) interferometry in a cQED architecture under the effects of dissipation. To be specific, we consider a superconducting qubit driven by a dc + ac signal and coupled to a transmission line resonator, but our results are valid for general qubit-resonators devices. To take the environment into account, we assume that the resonator is coupled to an Ohmic quantum bath. The Floquet-Born-Markov master equation is numerically solved to obtain the dynamics of the system for an arbitrary amplitude of the drive and different timescales. We unveil important differences in the resonant patterns between the strong coupling and ultrastrong coupling regimes in the qubit-resonator interaction, which are mainly due to the magnitude of photonic gaps in the energy spectrum of the system. We identify in the LZS patterns the contribution of the qubit gap and the photonic gaps, showing that for large driving amplitudes the patterns present a weaving structure due to the combined intercrossing of the different gaps contributions.
We investigate the factorization, coherence, and asymmetry properties of the one-dimensional Heisenberg spin-1 2 XXZ chain with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction (DMI) and a transverse magnetic field using quantum information measures. Both longitudinal and transverse DM vectors are considered. Using numerical DMRG methods, we compute bipartite entanglement estimators like the one-tangle, two-spin concurrence and quantum coherence estimators like the Wigner-Yanase-skew information. We show that a longitudinal DMI destroys the factorizability property while a transverse DMI preserves it. We relate the absence of factorizability to the breaking of the U (1) rotation symmetry about the local magnetization axis at each lattice site. Physically, the breaking of the symmetry manifests in the existence of a chiral current. Furthermore, we show that although the longitudinal DMI destroys the factorization property, there is a "pseudofactorizing" field at which the entanglement and hence violation of the U (1) symmetry is minimal. Our calculations indicate a phase coherent ground state at h pf . An entanglement transition (ET) occurs across this field which is characterized by an enhanced but finite range of two-spin concurrence in its vicinity in contrast with the diverging range of the concurrence for the ET across the factorizing field. We relate the asymmetry to the "frameness" or the ability for the state to act as a reference frame for some measurement. In the absence of the longitudinal DMI (or in the presence of a transverse DMI), at the factorizing field, the single site magnetization axis serves to specify the common z axis for the full system but not the full Cartesian reference frame due to a lack of phase reference. On the other hand, in the presence of a longitudinal DMI, our results indicate that at the pseudofactorizing field, the local magnetization and the chiral current are sufficient to specify the full Cartesian reference frame with the chiral current serving as the macroscopic quantity to determine the phase reference.
We investigate the Landau-Zener-Stückelberg-Majorana interferometry of a superconducting qubit in a semi-infinite transmission line terminated by a mirror. The transmon-type qubit is at the node of the resonant electromagnetic (EM) field, "hiding" from the EM field. We modulate the resonant frequency of the qubit by applying a sinusoidal flux pump. We perform spectroscopy by measuring the reflection coefficient of a weak probe in the system. Remarkable interference patterns emerge in the spectrum, which can be interpreted as multiphoton resonances in the dressed qubit. Our calculations agree well with the experiments.
A tunable gap in the topological surface state is of great interest for novel spintronic devices and applications in quantum computing. Here, we study the surface electronic structure and magnetic properties of the Gd-doped topological insulator TlBi 0.9 Gd 0.1 Se 2 . Utilizing superconducting quantum interference device magnetometry, we show paramagnetic behavior down to 2 K. Combining spin-and angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy with different polarizations of light, we demonstrate that the topological surface state is characterized by the Dirac cone with a helical spin structure and confirm its localization within the bulk band gap. By using different light sources in photoemission spectroscopy, various Dirac-point gap values were observed: 50 meV for hν = 18 eV and 20 meV for hν = 6.3 eV. Here, we discuss the gap observation by the angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy method as a consequence of the scattering processes. Simulating the corresponding spectral function, we demonstrate that the asymmetric energy-distribution curve of the surface state leads to an overestimation of the corresponding gap value. We speculate that 20 meV in our case is a trustworthy value and attribute this gap to be originated by scattering both on magnetic and charge impurities provided by Gd atoms and surface defects. Given the complexity and importance of scattering processes in the topological surface state together with our observations of distinctive photoemission asymmetry, we believe our results are important for research of the massive Dirac fermions in novel quantum materials.
2 chains with alternating antiferromagnetic (AF) and ferromagnetic (FM) couplings exhibit quantum entanglement as the integer-spin Haldane chains and might be similarly utilized for quantum computations. Such alternating AF-FM chains have been proposed to be realized in the distorted honeycomb lattice compound Na 2 Cu 2 TeO 6 , but to confirm this picture a comprehensive understanding of the exchange interactions including terms outside of the idealized model is required. Here, we employ neutron scattering to study the spin dynamics in Na 2 Cu 2 TeO 6 and accurately determine the coupling strengths through the random phase approximation and density functional theory approaches. We find the AF and FM intrachain couplings are the dominant terms in the spin Hamiltonian, while the interchain couplings are AF but perturbative. This hierarchy in the coupling strengths and the alternating signs of the intrachain couplings can be understood through their different exchange paths. Our results establish Na 2 Cu 2 TeO 6 as a weakly coupled alternating AF-FM chain compound and reveal the robustness of the gapped ground state in alternating chains under weak interchain couplings.
We report a first principles analysis of the linear electro-optic (EO) or Pockels effect in rhombohedral BaTiO 3 (BTO), the lowest temperature phase of this ferroelectric perovskite. Si-integrated BTO is a promising material for EO modulators in Si photonics, with applications in optical quantum computing. This requires a fundamental understanding of the Pockels effect in BTO at low temperature. Through density functional perturbation theory, we explore the origins of a strong Pockels response by examination of the components that make up the ionic contribution to the EO tensor. We identify the phonon modes dominating the EO response and establish their relation to the electronic structure and optical properties of the material.
We study the phase diagram of the SO q (3) quantum group invariant spin-1 bilinear-biquadratic spin chain for real values of q > 1. Numerical computations suggest that the chain has at least three clearly distinguished phases: A chiral analog of the Haldane phase, a dimerized phase, and a ferromagnetic phase. In contrast, the counterpart of the extended critical region that is known to exist for q = 1 remains elusive. Our results show that the Haldane phase fails to exhibit a twofold degeneracy in the entanglement spectrum but that the degeneracy is restored upon a suitable q deformation of the entanglement Hamiltonian, which can be interpreted as a Zeeman field. The structure of the phase diagram is confirmed through analytical calculations in the extreme anisotropic limit q → ∞. Our results suggest that symmetries of the form U q [su(2)] for distinct choices of q should be interpreted as one single family instead of separate symmetries when defining SPT phases, leading naturally to the notion of a q-SPT phase.
We numerically investigate non-Abelian braiding dynamics of vortices in two-dimensional topological superconductors, such as s-wave superconductors with Rashba spin-orbit coupling. Majorana zero modes (MZMs) hosted by the vortices constitute a topological qubit, which offers a fundamental building block of topological quantum computation. As the MZMs are protected by Z 2 invariant, however, the Majorana qubit and quantum gate operations may be sensitive to intrinsic decoherence caused by MZM hybridization. Numerically simulating the time-dependent Bogoliubov-de Gennes equation without assuming a priori existence of MZMs, we examine quantum noises on the unitary operators of non-Abelian braiding dynamics due to interactions with neighboring MZMs and other quasiparticle states. We demonstrate that after the interchange of two vortices, the lowest vortex-bound states accumulate the geometric phase π/2, and errors stemming from dynamical phases are negligibly small, irrespective of interactions of MZMs. Furthermore, we numerically simulate the braiding dynamics of four vortices in two-dimensional topological superconductors, and discuss an optimal braiding condition for realizing the high performance of non-Abelian statistics and quantum gate operations of Majorana-based qubits.
Silicon vacancies in silicon carbide have been proposed as an alternative to nitrogen vacancy centers in diamonds for spintronics and quantum technologies. An important precondition for these applications is the initialization of the qubits into a specific quantum state. In this work, we study the optical alignment of the spin 3/2 negatively charged silicon vacancy in 6H -SiC. Using time-resolved optically detected magnetic resonance, we coherently control the silicon vacancy spin ensemble and measure Rabi frequencies, spin-spin and spin-lattice relaxation times of all three transitions. Then to study the optical initialization process of the silicon vacancy spin ensemble, the vacancy spin ensemble is prepared in different ground states and optically excited. We describe a simple rate equation model that can explain the observed behavior and determine the relevant rate constants.
Quantum spin Hall (QSH) effect with great promise for the potential application in spintronics and quantum computing has attracted extensive research interest from both theoretical and experimental researchers. Here, we predict monolayer Ta 2 Pd 3 Te 5 can be a QSH insulator based on first-principles calculations. The interlayer binding energy in the layered van der Waals compound Ta 2 Pd 3 Te 5 is 19.6 meV/Å 2 ; thus, its monolayer/thinfilm structures could be readily obtained by exfoliation. The band inversion near the Fermi level (E F ) is an intrinsic characteristic, which happens between Ta-5d and Pd-4d orbitals without spin-orbit coupling (SOC). The SOC effect opens a global gap and makes the system a QSH insulator. With the d-d band-inverted feature, the nontrivial topology in monolayer Ta 2 Pd 3 Te 5 is characterized by the time-reversal topological invariant Z 2 = 1, which is computed by the one-dimensional (1D) Wilson loop method as implemented in our first-principles calculations. The helical edge modes are also obtained using surface Green's function method. Our calculations show that the QSH state in Ta 2 M 3 Te 5 (M = Pd, Ni) can be tuned by external strain. These monolayers and thin films provide feasible platforms for realizing QSH effect as well as related devices.
The interplay between topological electronic structure and superconductivity has attracted tremendous research interests recently as they could induce topological superconductivity (TSCs) which may be used to realize topological qubits for quantum computation. Among various TSC candidates, superconducting BaSn 3 (T c ∼ 4.4 K) has been predicted to be a topological Dirac semimetal (TDS) hosting two pairs of Dirac points along the -A direction. Here, by combining the use of angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy and ab initio calculations, we identified the predicted topological Dirac fermions and confirmed the TDS nature of the compound. In addition, we observed surface states connecting the Dirac points. Our observations demonstrate BaSn 3 as a superconductor with nontrivial topological electronic structures.
Parafermions are exotic quasiparticles with non-Abelian fractional statistics that could be exploited to realize universal topological quantum computing. Here, we study the scrambling of quantum information in one-dimensional parafermionic chains, with a focus on Z 3 parafermions in particular. We use the generalized out-of-time-ordered correlators (OTOCs) as a measure of the information scrambling and introduce an efficient method based on matrix product operators to compute them. With this method, we compute the OTOCs for Z 3 parafermions chains up to 200 sites for the entire early growth region. We find that, in stark contrast to the dynamics of conventional fermions or bosons, the information scrambling light cones for parafermions can be both symmetric and asymmetric, even for inversion-invariant Hamiltonians involving only hopping terms. In addition, we find a deformed light cone structure with a sharp peak at the boundary of the parafermion chains in the topological regime, which gives unambiguous evidence of the strong zero modes at infinite temperature.
Optically addressable spin-triplet defects in silicon carbide, such as divacancies and negatively charged nitrogen vacancy (NV -) allow to develop modern quantum technologies operating in the near-infrared range based on the well-developed semiconductor material. Here, by means of both high-frequency (94 GHz) pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) and electron-nuclear double Rresonance (ENDOR) techniques the ground state properties of the negatively charged NV -defect in 4H -SiC were studied. We experimentally determined the ordering of the ground state spin sublevels and established the sign of the zero-field splitting to be positive as predicted by theory. Analysis of nuclear magnetic resonance transitions in ENDOR spectra allowed to determine the sign, symmetry, and absolute values of the hyperfine interaction of the NV -defect electron spin with 14 N nuclear spin as A = -1.142 MHz and A ⊥ = -1.184 MHz. The absolute value of the nuclear quadrupole interaction constant reflecting an interaction between the 14 N nuclear electric quadrupole moment with the electric field gradient was determined to be |C q | = 2.44 MHz. This large value is compatible with a threefold coordinated 14 N nucleus with uniaxial symmetry and proves conclusively the existence of a nearestneighbor N C V Si pair in the material. For this NV -defect, an ensemble (Hahn-echo) coherence time of T 2 = 49 μs was measured, a value which is in the range previously reported for silicon vacancy spin ensembles and slightly longer than T 2 = 40 μs measured here on the divacancy spin ensemble.
2M-WS 2 is a newly discovered superconductor with a rather high critical transition temperature (T c = 8.8 K) and topological surface states. Recently Majorana bound states were observed in magnetic vortices of this material. Thus uncovering the flux dynamics of the magnetic vortices is essential to further promote the physical understanding and its practical application in topological quantum computation. Here we report an in-depth investigation on this issue by the temperature-and field-dependent electric transport measurements. The magnitudes of activation energy under both field orientations are rather low, revealing a weak pinning strength of the flux in the present system. Moreover, clear anisotropic thermally activated flux-flow behaviors are revealed. Under the in-plane field (H bc), the activation energy U shows a (1 -T /T c )H -α dependence indicating the three-dimensional feature, while under the out-of-plane field (H ⊥ bc), U is proportional to (1 -T /T c ) ln H , which suggests a two-dimensional liquid state for the vortices.
The list of semiconductor materials with spectroscopically fingerprinted self-interstitials is very short. The M center in 4H-SiC, a bistable defect responsible for a family of electron traps, has been deprived of a model which could unveil its real importance for almost two decades. Using advanced first-principles calculations and junction spectroscopy, we demonstrate that the properties of M, including bistability, annealing, reconfiguration kinetics, and electronic levels match those of the carbon self-interstitial.
Strong spin-orbital-coupling magnetic systems with the honeycomb structure can provide bond-directional interactions which may result in Kitaev quantum spin liquids and exotic anyonic excitations. However, one of the key ingredients in real materials-disorders-has been much less studied in Kitaev systems. Here we synthesized a trigonal SrIr 2 O 6-δ with δ ≈ 0.25, which consists of two-dimensional honeycomb Ir planes with edge-sharing IrO 6 octahedra. First-principles computation and experimental measurements suggest that the electronic system is gapped, and there should be no magnetic moment as the Ir 5+ ion has no unpaired electrons. However, significant magnetism has been observed in the material, and it can be attributed to disorders that are most likely from oxygen vacancies. No magnetic order is found down to 0.05 K, and the low-temperature magnetic properties exhibit power-law behaviors in magnetic susceptibility and zero-field specific heat, and a single-parameter scaling of the specific heat under magnetic fields. These results provide strong evidence for the existence of the random singlet phase in SrIr 2 O 6-δ , which offers a different member to the family of spin-orbital entangled iridates and Kitaev materials.
Microwave pulse sequences are the basis of coherent manipulation of the electronic spin ground state in nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers. In this work we demonstrate stimulated Raman transitions (SRTs) and stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP), two ways to drive the dipole-forbidden transition between two spin sublevels in the electronic triplet ground state of the NV center. This driving is achieved by a two-photon Raman microwave pulse which simultaneously drives two detuned transitions via a virtual level for SRTs or via two adiabatic and partially overlapping resonant microwave pulses for STIRAP. We lay the theoretical framework of SRT and STIRAP dynamics and verify experimentally the theoretical predictions of population inversion by observing the dipole-forbidden transition in the ground state of a single NV center. A comparison of the two schemes showed better robustness and success of the spin swap for STIRAP compared to SRT.
Strong spin-orbital-coupling magnetic systems with the honeycomb structure can provide bond-directional interactions which may result in Kitaev quantum spin liquids and exotic anyonic excitations. However, one of the key ingredients in real materials-disorders-has been much less studied in Kitaev systems. Here we synthesized a trigonal SrIr 2 O 6-δ with δ ≈ 0.25, which consists of two-dimensional honeycomb Ir planes with edge-sharing IrO 6 octahedra. First-principles computation and experimental measurements suggest that the electronic system is gapped, and there should be no magnetic moment as the Ir 5+ ion has no unpaired electrons. However, significant magnetism has been observed in the material, and it can be attributed to disorders that are most likely from oxygen vacancies. No magnetic order is found down to 0.05 K, and the low-temperature magnetic properties exhibit power-law behaviors in magnetic susceptibility and zero-field specific heat, and a single-parameter scaling of the specific heat under magnetic fields. These results provide strong evidence for the existence of the random singlet phase in SrIr 2 O 6-δ , which offers a different member to the family of spin-orbital entangled iridates and Kitaev materials.
Paramagnetic substitutional carbon (C B , C N ) defects in hexagonal boron nitride are discussed as candidates for quantum bits. Their identification and suitability are approached by means of photoluminescence (PL), charge transitions, electron paramagnetic resonance, and optically detected magnetic resonance (ODMR) spectra. Several clear trends in these are revealed by means of an efficient plane wave periodic supercell ab initio density functional theory approach. In particular, this yields insight into the role of the separation between C B and C N . In most of the cases, the charge transition between the neutral and a singly charged ground state of a defect is predicted to be experimentally accessible, since the charge transition level position lies within the band gap. A posteriori charge corrections are also discussed. A near-identification of an experimentally isolated single spin center as the neutral C B point defect was found via comparison of results to recently observed PL and ODMR spectra.
Kitaev's toric code is an exactly solvable model with Z 2 -topological order, which has potential applications in quantum computation and error correction. However, a direct experimental realization remains an open challenge. Here, we propose a building block for Z 2 lattice gauge theories coupled to dynamical matter and demonstrate how it allows for an implementation of the toric-code ground state and its topological excitations. This is achieved by introducing separate matter excitations on individual plaquettes, whose motion induce the required plaquette terms. The proposed building block is realized in the second-order coupling regime and is well suited for implementations with superconducting qubits. Furthermore, we propose a pathway to prepare topologically nontrivial initial states during which a large gap on the order of the underlying coupling strength is present. This is verified by both analytical arguments and numerical studies. Moreover, we outline experimental signatures of the ground-state wave function and introduce a minimal braiding protocol. Detecting a π -phase shift between Ramsey fringes in this protocol reveals the anyonic excitations of the toric-code Hamiltonian in a system with only three triangular plaquettes. Our work paves the way for realizing non-Abelian anyons in analog quantum simulators.
Silicon-vacancy and tin-vacancy defects in diamond are of interest as alternative qubits to the nitrogen vacancy (NV) center due to their superior optical properties. While the availability of optical transitions in these defects is one of their assets, high-fidelity optical coherent control has not been demonstrated. Here, we design optical control schemes tailored to these defects. We evaluate the performance of arbitrary single-qubit rotations of the electron spin qubit both in the absence and presence of an external magnetic field, by taking into account both coherent and incoherent errors. We find that rotations in excess of 98.0% (T = 4 K) and 99.71% (T = 6 K) can be achieved for SiV and SnV, respectively, in the presence of realistic relaxation and leakage errors.
Silicon-vacancy and tin-vacancy defects in diamond are of interest as alternative qubits to the nitrogen vacancy (NV) center due to their superior optical properties. While the availability of optical transitions in these defects is one of their assets, high-fidelity optical coherent control has not been demonstrated. Here, we design optical control schemes tailored to these defects. We evaluate the performance of arbitrary single-qubit rotations of the electron spin qubit both in the absence and presence of an external magnetic field, by taking into account both coherent and incoherent errors. We find that rotations in excess of 98.0% (T = 4 K) and 99.71% (T = 6 K) can be achieved for SiV and SnV, respectively, in the presence of realistic relaxation and leakage errors.
Spin relaxation and decoherence is at the heart of spintronics and spin-based quantum information science. Currently, theoretical approaches that can accurately predict spin relaxation of general solids including necessary scattering pathways and are capable of nanosecond to millisecond simulation time are urgently needed. We present a first-principles real-time density-matrix approach based on Lindblad dynamics to simulate ultrafast spin dynamics for general solid-state systems. Through the complete first-principles descriptions of pump, probe, and scattering processes including electron-phonon, electron-impurity, and electron-electron scatterings with self-consistent electronic spin-orbit couplings, our method can directly simulate the ultrafast pump-probe measurements for coupled spin and electron dynamics over nanoseconds at any temperatures and doping levels. We first apply this method to a prototypical system GaAs and obtain excellent agreement with experiments. We found that the relative contributions of different scattering mechanisms and phonon modes differ considerably between spin and carrier relaxation processes. In sharp contrast to previous work based on model Hamiltonians, we point out that the electron-electron scattering is negligible at room temperature but becomes dominant at low temperatures for spin relaxation in n-type GaAs. We further examine ultrafast dynamics in novel spin-valleytronic materials: monolayer and bilayer WSe 2 with realistic defects. We find that spin relaxation is highly sensitive to local symmetry and chemical bonds around defects. For the bilayer WSe 2 , we identify the scattering pathways in ultrafast dynamics and determine relevant dynamical properties, essential to its utilization of unique spin-valley-layer locking effects. Our work provides a predictive computational platform for spin dynamics in solids, which has potential for designing new materials ideal for spintronics and quantum information technology.
Spin relaxation and decoherence is at the heart of spintronics and spin-based quantum information science. Currently, theoretical approaches that can accurately predict spin relaxation of general solids including necessary scattering pathways and are capable of nanosecond to millisecond simulation time are urgently needed. We present a first-principles real-time density-matrix approach based on Lindblad dynamics to simulate ultrafast spin dynamics for general solid-state systems. Through the complete first-principles descriptions of pump, probe, and scattering processes including electron-phonon, electron-impurity, and electron-electron scatterings with self-consistent electronic spin-orbit couplings, our method can directly simulate the ultrafast pump-probe measurements for coupled spin and electron dynamics over nanoseconds at any temperatures and doping levels. We first apply this method to a prototypical system GaAs and obtain excellent agreement with experiments. We found that the relative contributions of different scattering mechanisms and phonon modes differ considerably between spin and carrier relaxation processes. In sharp contrast to previous work based on model Hamiltonians, we point out that the electron-electron scattering is negligible at room temperature but becomes dominant at low temperatures for spin relaxation in n-type GaAs. We further examine ultrafast dynamics in novel spin-valleytronic materials: monolayer and bilayer WSe 2 with realistic defects. We find that spin relaxation is highly sensitive to local symmetry and chemical bonds around defects. For the bilayer WSe 2 , we identify the scattering pathways in ultrafast dynamics and determine relevant dynamical properties, essential to its utilization of unique spin-valley-layer locking effects. Our work provides a predictive computational platform for spin dynamics in solids, which has potential for designing new materials ideal for spintronics and quantum information technology.
Quantum spin liquids hosting Majorana excitations have recently experienced renewed interest for potential applications to topological quantum computation. Performing logical operations with reduced poisoning requires to localize such quasiparticles at specific point of a device, with energies that are well defined and inside the bulk energy gap. These are two defining features of second-order topological insulators (SOTIs). Here, we show two spin-3/2 models that support quantum spin liquid phases characterized by Majorana excitations. One of them, defined on a square lattice, is analytically solvable thanks to a theorem by Lieb and behaves as a known SOTI. We show that, depending on the values of spin couplings, it is possible to localize either fermions or Majorana particles at its corners. The second model, defined on a kagome lattice, exhibits coexisting topologies, which reflect in a complex pattern of edge states. For certain choices of spin couplings, edge states can localize at one of the corners of a finite kagome lattice with flat edges.
Dimerized magnets forming alternating Heisenberg chains exhibit quantum coherence and entanglement and thus can find potential applications in quantum information and computation. However, magnetic systems typically undergo thermal decoherence at finite temperatures. Here, we show inelastic neutron scattering results on an alternating antiferromagnetic-ferromagnetic chain compound Na 2 Cu 2 TeO 6 that the excited quasiparticles can counter thermal decoherence and maintain strong correlations at elevated temperatures. At low temperatures, we observe clear dispersive singlet-triplet excitations arising from the dimers formed along the crystalline b axis. The excitation gap is of ∼18 meV and the bandwidth is about half of the gap. The band top energy has a weak modulation along the [100] direction, indicative of a small interchain coupling. The gap increases while the bandwidth decreases with increasing temperature, leading to a strong reduction in the available phase space for the triplons. As a result, the Lorentzian-type energy broadening becomes highly asymmetric as the temperature is raised. These results are associated with a strongly correlated state resulting from hard-core constraint and quasiparticle interactions. We consider these results to be not only evidence for strong correlations at finite temperatures in Na 2 Cu 2 TeO 6 , but also for the universality of the strongly correlated state in a broad range of quantum magnetic systems.
We report on an experimentally observed doubly split spectrum and its split-width fluctuation due to charge fluctuation in an ultrastrongly coupled superconducting qubit and resonator. From an analysis of the circuit model Hamiltonian, we found that the doubly split spectrum and split-width fluctuation are caused by discrete charge hops due to quasiparticle tunneling and a continuous background charge fluctuation in islands of a flux qubit. During 70 h of spectrum measurement, the split width fluctuated but the middle frequency of the split was constant. This observation indicates that the quasiparticles in our device mainly tunnel in one particular junction, as expected from the energy difference between quasiparticle states, during this 70 h. The background offset charge obtained from the split width has the 1/ f noise characteristic.
In the physics of the fractional quantum Hall (FQH) effect, a zoo of Abelian topological phases can be obtained by varying the magnetic field. Aiming to reach the same phenomenology in spin like systems, we propose a family of SU(N)-symmetric models in the fundamental representation, on the square lattice with short-range interactions restricted to triangular units, a natural generalization for arbitrary N of an SU(3) model studied previously where time-reversal symmetry is broken explicitly. Guided by the recent discovery of SU(2) 1 and SU(3) 1 chiral spin liquids (CSL) on similar models we search for topological SU(N ) 1 CSL in some range of the Hamiltonian parameters via a combination of complementary numerical methods such as exact diagonalizations (ED), infinite density matrix renormalization group (iDMRG) and infinite Projected Entangled Pair State (iPEPS). Extensive ED on small (periodic and open) clusters up to N = 10 and an innovative SU(N)-symmetric version of iDMRG to compute entanglement spectra on (infinitely long) cylinders in all topological sectors provide unambiguous signatures of the SU(N ) 1 character of the chiral liquids. An SU(4)-symmetric chiral PEPS, constructed in a manner similar to its SU(2) and SU(3) analogs, is shown to give a good variational ansatz of the N = 4 ground state, with chiral edge modes originating from the PEPS holographic bulk-edge correspondence. Finally, we discuss the possible observation of such Abelian CSL in ultracold atom setups where the possibility of varying N provides a tuning parameter similar to the magnetic field in the physics of the FQH effect.
Single holes confined in semiconductor quantum dots are a promising platform for spin-qubit technology, due to the electrical tunability of the g factor of holes. However, the underlying mechanisms that enable electric spin control remain unclear due to the complexity of hole-spin states. Here, we study the underlying hole-spin physics of the first hole in a silicon planar metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) quantum dot. We show that nonuniform electrode-induced strain produces nanometer-scale variations in the heavy-hole-light-hole (HH-LH) splitting. Importantly, we find that this nonuniform strain causes the HH-LH splitting to vary by up to 50% across the active region of the quantum dot. We show that local electric fields can be used to displace the hole relative to the nonuniform strain profile, allowing a mechanism for electric modulation of the hole g tensor. Using this mechanism, we demonstrate tuning of the hole g factor by up to 500%. In addition, we observe a potential sweet spot where dg (110) /dV = 0, offering a configuration to suppress spin decoherence caused by electrical noise. These results open a path towards a technology involving engineering of nonuniform strains to optimize spin-based devices.
Topological superconductors are materials in which superconductivity is closely entangled with topological electronic states. This provides a promising route to create Majorana bound states that are of fundamental importance to fault-tolerant quantum computation. In this paper, the recently discovered superconductor CaBi 2 has been identified as a three-dimensional topological material. Spin-split topological surface states intersecting the Fermi energy are experimentally observed via spin-and angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy. They are highly consistent with theoretical calculations. Furthermore, the layer-locked spin structure of CaBi 2 is revealed via the layer-resolved spin texture analysis. These results unambiguously reveal the topological properties of the spin-polarized electronic structure in CaBi 2 and provide important clues in the search for Majorana fermions in Bi-based topological superconductors.
Magnetic impurities create in-gap states on superconductors. Recent experiments explore the topological properties of one-dimensional arrays of magnetic impurities on superconductors, because in certain regimes p-wave pairing can be locally induced leading to new topological phases. A byproduct of the new accessible phases is the appearance of zero-energy edge states that have non-Abelian exchange properties and can be used for topological quantum computation. Despite the large amount of theory devoted to these systems, most treatments use approximations that render their applicability limited when comparing with usual experiments of 1D impurity arrays on wide-band superconductors. These approximations either involve tight-binding-like approximations where the impurity energy scales match the minute energy scale of the superconducting gap and are many times unrealistic, or they assume strongly-bound in-gap states. Here, we use a theory for s-wave superconductors based on a wide-band normal metal, with any possible energy scale for the magnetic impurities and develop an efficient way of computing the well-known topological invariants of infinite chains. We perform concrete calculations on ferromagnetic spin chains using BCS Green's function for the superconductor and including Rashba coupling to compare with recent experimental results. The infinite-chain properties can be analytically obtained, giving us a way to compare with finite-chain calculations. We show that it is possible to converge to the infinite limit by doing finite-size numerical calculation, paving the way for numerical calculations not based on analytical Green's functions. As an application, we show that energy oscillations around zero with increasing number of atoms in the spin chain does not reflect the topological origin of the low-energy state.
Qubits encoded in the spin state of heavy holes confined in Si-and Ge-based semiconductor quantum dots are currently leading the efforts toward spin-based quantum information processing. The virtual absence of spinful nuclei in purified samples yields long qubit coherence times and the intricate coupling between spin and momentum in the valence band can provide very fast spin-orbit-based qubit control, e.g., via electrically induced modulations of the heavy-hole g-tensor. A thorough understanding of all aspects of the interplay between spin-orbit coupling, the confining potentials, and applied magnetic fields is thus essential for the development of the optimal hole-spin-based qubit platform. Here we theoretically investigate the manifestation of the effective g-tensor and effective mass of heavy holes in two-dimensional hole gases as well as in lateral quantum dots. We include the effects of the anisotropy of the effective Luttinger Hamiltonian (particularly relevant for Si-based systems) and we focus on the detailed role of the orientation of the transverse confining potential. We derive general analytic expressions for the anisotropic g-tensor and we present a general and straightforward way to calculate corrections to this g-tensor for localized holes due to various types of spin-orbit interaction, exemplifying the approach by including a simple linear Rashba-like term. Our results thus contribute to the understanding needed to find optimal points in parameter space for hole-spin qubits, where confinement is effective and spin-orbit-mediated electric control over the spin states is efficient.
Divacancy in its neutral charge state (V C V 0 Si ) in 4H silicon carbide (SiC) is a leading quantum bit (qubit) contender. Owing to the lattice structure of 4H SiC, four different V C V Si configurations can be formed. The ground and the optically accessible excited states of V C V 0
Solving the many-body Schrödinger equation in continuous spaces with the presence of strong correlations is an extremely important and challenging issue in quantum physics. In this work, we propose the functional tensor network (FTN) approach to solve the many-body Schrödinger equation. Provided the orthonormal functional bases, we represent the coefficients of the many-body wave function as a tensor network. The observables, such as energy, can be calculated simply by tensor contractions. Simulating the ground state becomes solving a minimization problem defined by the tensor network. An efficient gradient-decent algorithm based on automatically differentiable tensors is proposed. We here take the matrix product state (MPS), whose complexity scales only linearly with the system size, as an example. We apply our approach to solve the ground state of coupled harmonic oscillators and achieve high accuracy by comparing our results with the exact solutions. Reliable results are also given in the presence of three-body interactions, where the system cannot be decoupled from isolated oscillators. Our approach is simple and, with well-controlled error, essentially different from highly nonlinear neural-network solvers. Our work extends the applications of the tensor network from quantum lattice models to systems in continuous space. The FTN can be used as a general solver of the differential equations with many variables. The MPS exemplified here can be generalized to, e.g., fermionic tensor networks to solve the electronic Schrödinger equation.
Bulk superconductivity in a topological semimetal is a first step towards realizing topological superconductors, which can host Majorana fermions allowing us to achieve quantum computing. Here, we report superconductivity and compensation of electrons and holes in single crystals of the nodal-line semimetal CaSb 2 . We characterize the superconducting state and find that Cooper pairs have moderate-weak coupling, and the superconducting transition in specific heat down to 0.22 K deviates from that of a BCS superconductor. The nonsaturating magnetoresistance and electron-hole compensation at low temperature are consistent with density functional theory (DFT) calculations showing nodal-line features. Furthermore, we observe de Haas-van Alphen (dHvA) oscillations consistent with a small Fermi surface in the semimetallic state of CaSb 2 . Our DFT calculations show that the two electron bands crossing the Fermi level are associated with Sb1 zig-zag chains, while the hole band is associated with Sb2 zig-zag chains. The Sb1 zig-zag chains form a distorted square net, which may relate the MSb 2 family to the well-known MSbTe square net semimetals. Realization of superconductivity and a compensated semimetal state in single crystals of CaSb 2 establishes the diantimonide family as a candidate class of materials for achieving topological superconductivity.
Bulk superconductivity in a topological semimetal is a first step towards realizing topological superconductors, which can host Majorana fermions allowing us to achieve quantum computing. Here, we report superconductivity and compensation of electrons and holes in single crystals of the nodal-line semimetal CaSb 2 . We characterize the superconducting state and find that Cooper pairs have moderate-weak coupling, and the superconducting transition in specific heat down to 0.22 K deviates from that of a BCS superconductor. The nonsaturating magnetoresistance and electron-hole compensation at low temperature are consistent with density functional theory (DFT) calculations showing nodal-line features. Furthermore, we observe de Haas-van Alphen (dHvA) oscillations consistent with a small Fermi surface in the semimetallic state of CaSb 2 . Our DFT calculations show that the two electron bands crossing the Fermi level are associated with Sb1 zig-zag chains, while the hole band is associated with Sb2 zig-zag chains. The Sb1 zig-zag chains form a distorted square net, which may relate the MSb 2 family to the well-known MSbTe square net semimetals. Realization of superconductivity and a compensated semimetal state in single crystals of CaSb 2 establishes the diantimonide family as a candidate class of materials for achieving topological superconductivity.
Coherent control and optical readout of the electron spin of the 29 SiV -center in diamond have been demonstrated in the literature, with exciting prospects for implementations as memory nodes and spin qubits. Nuclear spins may be even better suited for many applications in quantum information processing due to their long coherence times. Control of the 29 SiV -nuclear spin using conventional NMR techniques is feasible, albeit at slow kilohertz rates due to the nuclear spin's low gyromagnetic ratio. In this work we theoretically demonstrate how indirect control using the electron spin-orbit effect can be employed for high-speed, megahertz control of the 29 Si nuclear spin. We discuss the impact of the nuclear spin precession frequency on gate times and the exciting possibility of all-optical nuclear spin control.
Coherent control and optical readout of the electron spin of the 29 SiV -center in diamond have been demonstrated in the literature, with exciting prospects for implementations as memory nodes and spin qubits. Nuclear spins may be even better suited for many applications in quantum information processing due to their long coherence times. Control of the 29 SiV -nuclear spin using conventional NMR techniques is feasible, albeit at slow kilohertz rates due to the nuclear spin's low gyromagnetic ratio. In this work we theoretically demonstrate how indirect control using the electron spin-orbit effect can be employed for high-speed, megahertz control of the 29 Si nuclear spin. We discuss the impact of the nuclear spin precession frequency on gate times and the exciting possibility of all-optical nuclear spin control.
Nuclear spins in solids exhibit long coherence times due to the small nuclear gyromagnetic ratio. This weak environmental coupling comes at the expense of slow quantum gate operations, which should be as fast as possible for many applications in quantum information processing and sensing. In this work we use nitrogenvacancy centers in diamond to probe the nuclear spins within dark paramagnetic nitrogen defects (P1 centers) in the diamond lattice. The gyromagnetic ratio of the P1 nuclear spin is augmented by hyperfine coupling to the electron spin, resulting in greatly enhanced coupling to radio frequency control fields. We then demonstrate that this effect can be tuned by variation of an external magnetic field. Our work identifies regimes in which we are able to implement fast quantum control of dark nuclear spins and lays the foundations for further inquiry into rapid control of long-lived spin qubits at room temperature.
Nuclear spins in solids exhibit long coherence times due to the small nuclear gyromagnetic ratio. This weak environmental coupling comes at the expense of slow quantum gate operations, which should be as fast as possible for many applications in quantum information processing and sensing. In this work we use nitrogenvacancy centers in diamond to probe the nuclear spins within dark paramagnetic nitrogen defects (P1 centers) in the diamond lattice. The gyromagnetic ratio of the P1 nuclear spin is augmented by hyperfine coupling to the electron spin, resulting in greatly enhanced coupling to radio frequency control fields. We then demonstrate that this effect can be tuned by variation of an external magnetic field. Our work identifies regimes in which we are able to implement fast quantum control of dark nuclear spins and lays the foundations for further inquiry into rapid control of long-lived spin qubits at room temperature.
We present an exact full symmetry analysis of the 0-π superconducting circuit. We identify points in control parameter space of enhanced anomalous symmetry, which imposes robust twofold degeneracy of its ground state, that is for all values of the energy parameters of the model. We show, both analytically and numerically, how this anomalous symmetry is maintained in the low-energy sector, thus providing us with a strong candidate for robust qubit engineering.
Quantum states are usually fragile, making quantum computation less stable than classical computation. Quantum correction codes can protect quantum states but need many physical qubits to encode a single logical qubit. Alternatively, protecting quantum states at the hardware level has been recently developed to maintain the coherence of the quantum information by using symmetry. However, it generally has to pay the expense of increasing the complexity of the quantum devices. In this work, we propose to approach the protection of quantum states at the hardware level without increasing the complexity of the devices. The interplay between the spin-orbit coupling and the Zeeman splitting in the semiconductor allows us to tune the Josephson coupling in terms of the spin degree of freedom of Cooper pairs, the hallmark of the superconducting spintronics. This leads to the implementation of the parity-protected 0-π superconducting qubit with only one highly transparent superconductor-semiconductor Josephson junction, which makes our proposal immune from the various fabrication imperfections.
The term N-photon bundles has been coined for a specific type of photon emission, where light quanta are released from a cavity only in groups of N particles. This emission leaves a characteristic number distribution of the cavity photons that may be taken as one of their fingerprints. We study this characteristic N-photon bundle statistics considering two solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamics (cQED) systems. As one example, we consider a semiconductor quantum-dot-microcavity system coupled to longitudinal acoustic phonons. There, we find the environmental influence to be detrimental to the bundle statistics. The other example is a superconducting qubit inside a microwave resonator. In these systems, pure dephasing is not important and an experimentally feasible parameter regime is found, where the bundle statistics prevails.
The term N-photon bundles has been coined for a specific type of photon emission, where light quanta are released from a cavity only in groups of N particles. This emission leaves a characteristic number distribution of the cavity photons that may be taken as one of their fingerprints. We study this characteristic N-photon bundle statistics considering two solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamics (cQED) systems. As one example, we consider a semiconductor quantum-dot-microcavity system coupled to longitudinal acoustic phonons. There, we find the environmental influence to be detrimental to the bundle statistics. The other example is a superconducting qubit inside a microwave resonator. In these systems, pure dephasing is not important and an experimentally feasible parameter regime is found, where the bundle statistics prevails.
The ground state properties of the two-dimensional J 1 -J 2 -model are very challenging to analyze via classical numerical methods due to the high level of frustration. This makes the model a promising candidate for which quantum computers could be helpful to possibly explore regimes that classical computers cannot reach. The J 1 -J 2 -model is a quantum spin model composed of Heisenberg interactions along the rectangular lattice edges and along diagonal edges between next-nearest-neighbor spins. We propose an ansatz for the variational quantum eigensolver to approximate the ground state of an antiferromagnetic J 1 -J 2 Hamiltonian for different lattice sizes and different ratios of J 1 and J 2 . Moreover, we demonstrate that this ansatz can work without the need for gates along the diagonal next-nearest-neighbor interactions. This simplification is of great importance for solid-statebased hardware with qubits on a rectangular grid, where it eliminates the need for SWAP gates. In addition, we provide an extrapolation for the number of gates and parameters needed for larger lattice sizes, showing that these are expected to grow linearly in the qubit number up to lattice sizes which eventually can no longer be treated with classical computers.
The ground state properties of the two-dimensional J 1 -J 2 -model are very challenging to analyze via classical numerical methods due to the high level of frustration. This makes the model a promising candidate for which quantum computers could be helpful to possibly explore regimes that classical computers cannot reach. The J 1 -J 2 -model is a quantum spin model composed of Heisenberg interactions along the rectangular lattice edges and along diagonal edges between next-nearest-neighbor spins. We propose an ansatz for the variational quantum eigensolver to approximate the ground state of an antiferromagnetic J 1 -J 2 Hamiltonian for different lattice sizes and different ratios of J 1 and J 2 . Moreover, we demonstrate that this ansatz can work without the need for gates along the diagonal next-nearest-neighbor interactions. This simplification is of great importance for solid-statebased hardware with qubits on a rectangular grid, where it eliminates the need for SWAP gates. In addition, we provide an extrapolation for the number of gates and parameters needed for larger lattice sizes, showing that these are expected to grow linearly in the qubit number up to lattice sizes which eventually can no longer be treated with classical computers.
Intrinsic magnetic topological insulators (MTIs), such as an MnBi 2 Te 4 family, have proved to be an essential platform for the study of various quantum effects and can be used for a range of applications from information storage and dissipationless spin and charge transfer to quantum computers. The latter requires the creation of Majorana fermions, which are expected to emerge when a superconductor is contacted with an MTI surface. Therefore the study of the features arising at the interface between the MTI and the superconductor is of great interest. For this purpose in this paper, the gradual growth of the elemental superconductor (Pb) film on the surface of Mn(Bi 0.7 Sb 0.3 ) 2 Te 4 , which has a Dirac point near the Fermi level, was experimentally investigated by ARPES and XPS methods. We observed that the shape of the Dirac cone state remains almost unchanged up to coverage of ∼1.5 Pb monolayers, thus remaining topological properties of the material. It was shown that Pb atoms deposition results in surface modification. They detached upper Te atoms and form TePb alloy on the surface. Moreover, Pb deposition leads to disorder of Te, Bi(Sb) layers closest to the surface. As a result, the localization of the Dirac cone state shifts towards the bulk. All these features should be taken into account in the implementation of a topological superconducting state based on the Pb/Mn(Bi,Sb) 2 Te 4 systems.
A formidable perspective in understanding quantum criticality of a given many-body system is through its entanglement contents. Until now, most progress are only limited to the disorder-free case. Here, we develop an efficient scheme to compute the entanglement entropy of (2+1)-dimensional quantum critical points with randomness, from a conceptual angle where the quenched disorder can be considered as dimensionally reducible interactions. As a concrete example, we reveal novel entanglement signatures of (2+1)-dimensional Dirac fermion exposed to a random magnetic field, which hosts a class of emergent disordered quantum critical points. We demonstrate that the entanglement entropy satisfies the area-law scaling, and observe a modification of the area-law coefficient that points to the emergent disordered quantum criticality. Moreover, we also obtain the subleading correction to the entanglement entropy due to a finite correlation length. This subleading correction is found to be a universal function of the correlation length and disorder strength. We discuss its connection to the renormalization group flows of underlying theories.
Candidate materials for the Kitaev spin liquid phase have been intensively studied recently because of their potential applications in fault-tolerant quantum computing. Although most of the studies on Kitaev spin liquid have been done in 4d-and 5d-based transition-metal compounds, recently there has been a growing research interest in Co-based quasi-two-dimensional honeycomb magnets, such as BaCo 2 (AsO 4 ) 2 because of formation of spin-orbit-entangled J eff = 1/2 pseudospin moments at Co 2+ sites and potential realizations of Kitaev-like magnetism therein. Here, we obtain high-accuracy crystal and electronic structure of BaCo 2 (AsO 4 ) 2 by employing combined density-functional and dynamical mean-field theory calculations, which correctly capture the Mott-insulating nature of the target system. We show that Co 2+ ions form a high-spin configuration, S = 3/2, with an active L eff = 1 orbital degree of freedom, in the absence of spin-orbit coupling. The size of trigonal distortion within CoO 6 octahedra is found to be not strong enough to completely quench the orbital degree of freedom, so that the presence of spin-orbit coupling can give rise to the formation of spin-orbit-entangled moments and the Kitaev exchange interaction. Our finding supports recent studies on potential Kitaev magnetism in this compound and other Co-based layered honeycomb systems.
We develop solvable models of large-N hybrid quantum circuits on qubits and fermions with tunable longrange power-law interactions and continuous local monitoring. These models provide analytical access to the entanglement phase diagram and error-correcting properties of many-body entangled nonequilibrium states generated by such dynamics. In one dimension, the long-range couplings are irrelevant for α > 3/2, where α is the power-law exponent, and the models exhibit a conventional measurement-induced phase transition between volume-and area-law entangled phases. For 1/2 < α < 3/2, the long-range couplings become relevant, leading to a nontrivial dynamical exponent at the measurement-induced phase transition. More interestingly, for α < 1, the entanglement pattern receives a subvolume correction for both area-law and volume-law phases, indicating that the phase realizes a quantum error correcting code whose code distance scales as L 2-2α . While the entanglement phase diagram is the same for both the interacting qubit and fermionic hybrid Brownian circuits, we find that long-range free-fermionic circuits exhibit a distinct phase diagram with two different fractal entangled phases.
Lithographic quantum dots in strained-Ge/SiGe have rapidly progressed from the realization of a single-hole quantum dot to multiqubit devices. We present a measurement of the out-of-plane g factor for a single-hole quantum dot in this material. This experiment avoids the strong orbital effects present in the higher p-like orbitals in this configuration and validates the expected g-factor anisotropy. The results are in good agreement with calculations of the g factor using the heavy-and light-hole spaces of the Luttinger Hamiltonian, showing strong tunability through both the B field and the charge state.
Recent experiments have pointed to chiral p-wave-like superconductivity in epitaxial Bi/Ni bilayers that are spontaneously time-reversal symmetry breaking (TRSB), making it a promising platform for exploring physics useful for topologically protected quantum computing. Quite intriguingly, evidence has emerged that, in nonepitaxial Bi/Ni bilayers, superconductivity arises due to the formation of NiBi 3 , which has been reported to host coexisting ferromagnetic and superconducting orders at the surface. We perform high-resolution surface magneto-optic Kerr effect measurements using a Sagnac interferometer on single-crystal NiBi 3 and find no sign of any spontaneous Kerr signal except for contributions from trapped vortices. This strongly indicates the absence of TRSB in NiBi 3 , whether due to TRSB in the superconducting state or any coexisting ferromagnetism, and we conclude that the superconductivity found in nonepitaxial Bi/Ni is distinctively different from that in epitaxial Bi/Ni.
One of the key pathways toward scalability of spin-based quantum computing systems lies in achieving long-range interactions between electrons and increasing their interconnectivity. Coherent spin transport is one of the most promising strategies to achieve this architectural advantage. Experimental results have previously demonstrated high-fidelity transportation of spin qubits between two quantum dots in silicon and identified possible sources of error. In this theoretical study, we investigate these errors and analyze the impact of tunnel coupling, magnetic field, and spin-orbit effects on the spin transfer process. The interplay between these effects gives rise to double dot configurations that include regimes of enhanced decoherence that should be avoided for quantum information processing. These conclusions permit us to extrapolate previous experimental conclusions and rationalize the future design of large-scale quantum processors.
Entangling a pair of far-distant qubits in many-body systems has been a challenging task in quantum computing. A robust entanglement was predicted in the rainbow states and generating nonlocal Bell pairs protected by a mirror symmetry was recently proposed. We investigate a way to create entangled Majorana fermions in the spin-1 2 Kitaev chain with open boundary conditions. The spin-1 2 Kitaev chain, a one-dimensional version of the honeycomb lattice with bond-dependent Ising interactions, has a macroscopic degeneracy related to the zero modes containing nonlocal spin strings. We show that applying a pair pulse sequence on the central unit cell of the chain promotes long-distance spin correlations and maximal bipartite entanglement entropy. We extend this method to the generalized bond-dependent spin-1 2 chain by introducing another set of Majorana fermions and make a comparison to the entangled Bell pairs. The time to reach maximal bipartite entanglement entropy is shorter in the Kitaev chain as the zero modes do not participate in the entangled pairs. An application of our results to a recently proposed twisted Kitaev chain, CoNb 2 O 6 , is presented and future directions are also discussed.
Spectral probes, such as neutron scattering, are crucial for characterizing excitations in quantum many-body systems and the properties of quantum materials. Among the most elusive phases of matter are quantum spin liquids, which have no long-range order even at zero temperature and host exotic fractionalized excitations with nontrivial statistics. These phases can occur in frustrated quantum magnets, such as the paradigmatic Heisenberg model with nearest-and next-nearest-neighbor exchange interactions on the triangular lattice, the so-called J 1 -J 2 model. In this work, we compute the spectral function using large-scale matrix product state simulations across the three different phases of this model's phase diagram, including a quantum spin-liquid phase at intermediate J 2 /J 1 . Despite a plethora of theoretical and experimental studies, the exact nature of this phase is still contested, with the dominant candidates being a gapped Z 2 , a gapless U (1) Dirac, and a spinon Fermi surface quantum spin-liquid state. We find a V-shaped spectrum near the center of the Brillouin zone ( point), a key signature of a spinon Fermi surface, observed in prior neutron scattering experiments. However, we find a small gap near the point, ruling out such a phase. Furthermore, we find localized gapless excitations at the corner of the Brillouin zone boundary (K point) and the middle of the edge of the Brillouin zone boundary (M point), ruling out the gapped Z 2 spin-liquid phase. Our results imply that the intermediate spin-liquid phase is a gapless U (1) Dirac spin liquid, and provide clear signatures to detect this phase in future neutron scattering experiments.
Color centers in diamonds have emerged as a promising candidate for quantum information and quantum computing applications. Compared to the well-known and widely studied nitrogen-vacancy N C -V C (NV) color center with C 3v symmetry, the group-IV vacancy color centers V C -X -V C (XV, X = Si, Ge, Sn, Pb), exhibit structures with the D 3d symmetry, which give rise to more stable coherent optical transitions for the zero-phonon line (ZPL) due to its inversion symmetry. Moreover, it is experimentally found that the ZPL peak of XV centers increases from Si to Sn to Ge to Pb, i.e., it does not vary monotonically with the atomic numbers. So far, the physical origin of the unusual local structures and the abnormal trend of ZPL of the XV centers are not well understood. In this paper, based on density-functional theory calculations and symmetry analysis, we demonstrate that the large size of the X atoms plays a dominant role in moving the X atoms away from the substitution site to the bond-center site between the two carbon vacancies to form the D 3d structure that can effectively reduce the local strain energy. Meanwhile, we find that the abnormal trends of ZPL of the XV centers derive from a competition of the p-p coupling and p-d coupling between X atoms and the divacancy based on the band-coupling mechanism. Our study, therefore, provides insights into the origin of the abnormal trends of ZPL and the local structure of XV centers in diamonds.
Majorana zero modes form as intrinsic defects in an odd-orbital one-dimensional superconductor, thus motivating the search for such materials in the pursuit of Majorana physics. Here, we present combined experimental results and first-principles calculations which suggest that quasi-one-dimensional K 2 Cr 3 As 3 may be such a superconductor. Using inelastic neutron scattering we probe the dynamic spin susceptibilities of K 2 Cr 3 As 3 and K 2 Mo 3 As 3 and show the presence of antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations in both compounds. Below the superconducting transition, these fluctuations gap in K 2 Mo 3 As 3 but not in K 2 Cr 3 As 3 . Using first-principles calculations, we show that these fluctuations likely arise from nesting on one-dimensional features of the Fermi surface. Considering these results we propose that while K 2 Mo 3 As 3 is a conventional superconductor, K 2 Cr 3 As 3 is likely a spin triplet, and consequently a topological superconductor.
Majorana zero modes form as intrinsic defects in an odd-orbital one-dimensional superconductor, thus motivating the search for such materials in the pursuit of Majorana physics. Here, we present combined experimental results and first-principles calculations which suggest that quasi-one-dimensional K 2 Cr 3 As 3 may be such a superconductor. Using inelastic neutron scattering we probe the dynamic spin susceptibilities of K 2 Cr 3 As 3 and K 2 Mo 3 As 3 and show the presence of antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations in both compounds. Below the superconducting transition, these fluctuations gap in K 2 Mo 3 As 3 but not in K 2 Cr 3 As 3 . Using first-principles calculations, we show that these fluctuations likely arise from nesting on one-dimensional features of the Fermi surface. Considering these results we propose that while K 2 Mo 3 As 3 is a conventional superconductor, K 2 Cr 3 As 3 is likely a spin triplet, and consequently a topological superconductor.
Recent advances in realizing ferroelectric and superconducting two-dimensional heterobilayers provide appealing platforms for exploring the interplay between ferroelectricity and superconductivity, which is not only crucial for understanding the superconducting mechanism but also important for designing next-generation superconducting devices. Based on first-principles calculations, we demonstrate that an IrTe 2 monolayer can be stabilized on a ferroelectric In 2 Se 3 monolayer via interlayer coupling. The superconducting transition temperature of the IrTe 2 /In 2 Se 3 heterobilayer is substantially enhanced from that of bulk IrTe 2 mainly due to enhanced interlayer coupling, supplemented by the increase in the density of states at the Fermi level and phonon softening; the latter is further tied to Fermi surface nesting. Our calculations show that superconductivity is dominant over several typical competing orders, including charge density wave, magnetism, and nematicity. Moreover, we find that the band topology of IrTe 2 /In 2 Se 3 can be switched between trivial and nontrivial by reversing the ferroelectric polarization of the In 2 Se 3 substrate. By further substituting Ir with Pd, the topological edge states can be tuned close to the Fermi level, making IrTe 2 /In 2 Se 3 a potential candidate for realizing topological superconductivity. Our work provides a realistic system that can simultaneously harbor ferroelectricity, superconductivity, and nontrivial band topology, paving the way for integrating multiple applications, such as superconducting field transistors, topological quantum computing, and tunable superconducting diodes, in a single system.
Recent advances in realizing ferroelectric and superconducting two-dimensional heterobilayers provide appealing platforms for exploring the interplay between ferroelectricity and superconductivity, which is not only crucial for understanding the superconducting mechanism but also important for designing next-generation superconducting devices. Based on first-principles calculations, we demonstrate that an IrTe 2 monolayer can be stabilized on a ferroelectric In 2 Se 3 monolayer via interlayer coupling. The superconducting transition temperature of the IrTe 2 /In 2 Se 3 heterobilayer is substantially enhanced from that of bulk IrTe 2 mainly due to enhanced interlayer coupling, supplemented by the increase in the density of states at the Fermi level and phonon softening; the latter is further tied to Fermi surface nesting. Our calculations show that superconductivity is dominant over several typical competing orders, including charge density wave, magnetism, and nematicity. Moreover, we find that the band topology of IrTe 2 /In 2 Se 3 can be switched between trivial and nontrivial by reversing the ferroelectric polarization of the In 2 Se 3 substrate. By further substituting Ir with Pd, the topological edge states can be tuned close to the Fermi level, making IrTe 2 /In 2 Se 3 a potential candidate for realizing topological superconductivity. Our work provides a realistic system that can simultaneously harbor ferroelectricity, superconductivity, and nontrivial band topology, paving the way for integrating multiple applications, such as superconducting field transistors, topological quantum computing, and tunable superconducting diodes, in a single system.
The Kitaev honeycomb model, which is exactly solvable by virtue of an extensive number of conserved quantities, supports a gapless quantum spin liquid phase as well as gapped descendants relevant for fault-tolerant quantum computation. We show that the anomalous edge modes of one-dimensional (1D) cluster-state-like symmetry-protected topological (SPT) phases provide natural building blocks for a variant of the Kitaev model that enjoys only a subextensive number of conserved quantities. The symmetry of our variant allows a single additional nearest-neighbor perturbation, corresponding to an anisotropic version of the term studied in the context of Kitaev materials. We determine the phase diagram of the model using exact diagonalization. Additionally, we use the density matrix renormalization group to show that the underlying 1D SPT building blocks can emerge from a ladder Hamiltonian exhibiting only two-spin interactions supplemented by a Zeeman field. Our approach may provide a pathway toward realizing Kitaev honeycomb spin liquids in spin-orbit-coupled Mott insulators.
Tuning superconductivity in topological materials by means of chemical substitution, electrostatic gating, or pressure is thought to be an effective route towards realizing topological superconductivity with their inherent Majorana fermions, the manipulation of which may form the basis for future topological quantum computing. It has recently been established that the pseudo-binary chalcogenides (ACh) m (Pn 2 Ch 3 ) n (A = Ge, Mn, Pb, etc.; Pn = Sb or Bi; Ch = Te, Se) may host novel topological quantum states such as the quantum anomalous Hall effect and topological axion states. Here we map out the phase diagram of one member in this series, the topological insulator candidate GeSb 4 Te 7 up to pressures of ∼35 GPa, through a combination of electrical resistance measurements, Raman spectroscopy, as well as first-principles calculations. Three distinct superconducting phases emerge under the pressure above ∼11, ∼17, and ∼31 GPa, which are accompanied by concomitant structural transitions, evidenced from the changes in the Raman modes. The first-principles calculations validate the existence of a topological insulating state at ambient pressure and predict two possible structural transitions at 10 and 17 GPa, in agreement with the experimental observations. Overall, our results establish the GeSb 4 Te 7 family of materials as a fertile arena for further exploring various topological phenomena, including topological phase transitions and putative topological superconductivity.
The 1538-nm 4 I 15/2 → 4 I 13/2 transition of Er 3+ has an unusual hybrid electric-magnetic dipole character, and signatures of the hybrid moment can be expected in coherent transient measurements. Here, we investigate the effect of the hybrid moment in both sites of Er 3+ :Y 2 SiO 5 on Stark-modulated photon echo measurements, showing that it results in a reduction of visibility of the modulated signal as well as phase and polarization shifts. We interpret these effects using a simple optical Bloch equation model, showing that site 1 has a strongly mixed moment and site 2 is predominantly magnetic dipole. We discuss the implications of the hybrid moment for quantum information applications of quantum memories. We also use the echo measurements to extract the Stark shift of the optical transition along three orthogonal directions, finding values between 10.50 and 11.93 kHz V -1 cm for site 1 and 1.61 and 15.35 kHz V -1 cm for site 2, dependent on the direction of the electric field. We observe a modification of the Zeeman shift by the electric field in both sites and discuss how this may be used to electrically control Er 3+ spin qubits.
Numerical treatment of two-dimensional strongly-correlated systems is both extremely challenging and of fundamental importance. Infinite projected entangled-pair states (PEPS), a class of tensor networks, have demonstrated cutting-edge performance for ground-state calculations, working directly in the thermodynamic limit. Furthermore, in recent years the application of PEPS has been extended to also low-lying excited states, using an ansatz that targets quasiparticle states above the ground state with high accuracy. A major technical challenge for those simulations is the accurate evaluation of summations of two-and three-point correlation functions with reasonable computational cost. In this paper, we show how a reformulation of n-point functions in the context of PEPS leads to extra contributions to the results that prove to play an important role. Benchmarks for the frustrated J 1 -J 2 Heisenberg model illustrate the improved precision, efficiency, and stability of the simulations compared to previous approaches. Leveraging automatic differentiation to generate the most tedious and error-prone parts of the computation, the straightforward implementation presented here is a step towards broader adoption of the PEPS excitation ansatz in future applications.
Spatial confinement of electronic topological surface states (TSSs) in topological insulators poses a formidable challenge because TSSs are protected by time-reversal symmetry. In previous works formation of a gap in the electronic spectrum of TSSs has been successfully demonstrated in topological insulator/magnetic material heterostructures, where ferromagnetic exchange interactions locally lift the time-reversal symmetry. Here we report experimental evidence of exchange interaction between a topological insulator Bi 2 Se 3 and a magnetic insulator EuSe. Spin-polarized neutron reflectometry reveals a reduction of the in-plane magnetic susceptibility within a 2 nm interfacial layer of EuSe, and the combination of superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometry and Hall measurements points to the formation of an interfacial layer with a suppressed net magnetic moment. This suppressed magnetization survives up to temperatures five times higher than the Néel temperature of EuSe. Its origin is attributed to the formation of an interfacial antiferromagnetic state. Abrupt resistance changes observed in high magnetic fields are consistent with antiferromagnetic domain reconstruction affecting transport in a TSS via exchange coupling. The high-temperature local control of TSSs with zero net magnetization unlocks new opportunities for the design of electronic, spintronic, and quantum computation devices, ranging from quantization of Hall conductance in zero fields to spatial localization of non-Abelian excitations in superconducting topological qubits.
Spatial confinement of electronic topological surface states (TSSs) in topological insulators poses a formidable challenge because TSSs are protected by time-reversal symmetry. In previous works formation of a gap in the electronic spectrum of TSSs has been successfully demonstrated in topological insulator/magnetic material heterostructures, where ferromagnetic exchange interactions locally lift the time-reversal symmetry. Here we report experimental evidence of exchange interaction between a topological insulator Bi 2 Se 3 and a magnetic insulator EuSe. Spin-polarized neutron reflectometry reveals a reduction of the in-plane magnetic susceptibility within a 2 nm interfacial layer of EuSe, and the combination of superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometry and Hall measurements points to the formation of an interfacial layer with a suppressed net magnetic moment. This suppressed magnetization survives up to temperatures five times higher than the Néel temperature of EuSe. Its origin is attributed to the formation of an interfacial antiferromagnetic state. Abrupt resistance changes observed in high magnetic fields are consistent with antiferromagnetic domain reconstruction affecting transport in a TSS via exchange coupling. The high-temperature local control of TSSs with zero net magnetization unlocks new opportunities for the design of electronic, spintronic, and quantum computation devices, ranging from quantization of Hall conductance in zero fields to spatial localization of non-Abelian excitations in superconducting topological qubits.
Inspired by coupled-layer constructions of fracton orders, we introduce the X -cube Floquet code, a dynamical quantum error-correcting code where the number of encoded logical qubits grows with system size. The X -cube Floquet code is defined on a three-dimensional lattice, built from intersecting two-dimensional layers in the xy, yz, and xz directions, and consists of a periodic sequence of two-qubit measurements which couple the layers together. Within a single Floquet cycle, the code space switches between that of the X -cube fracton order and layers of entangled, two-dimensional toric codes. The encoded logical qubits' dynamics are analyzed, and we argue that the new code has a nonzero error threshold.
The diamond nitrogen vacancy (NV) center remains an ever-increasing topic of interest. At present, it is considered an ideal example of a solid-state qubit applicable in quantum communication, computing, and sensing alike. With its success, the search for defects that share or improve upon its advantageous features is an ongoing endeavor. By performing large-scale high-throughput screening of 52 600 defects in 4H silicon carbide (SiC), we identify a collection of NV-like color centers of particular interest. From this list, the single most promising candidate consists of a silicon vacancy and chlorine substituted on the carbon site, and is given the name of chlorine vacancy (ClV) center. Through high-accuracy first-principle calculations, we confirm that the ClV center is similar to the NV center in diamond in its local structure and shares many qualitative and quantitative features in the electronic structure and spin properties. In contrast to the NV center, however, the ClV center in SiC exhibits emission in the telecom range near the C band.
The diamond nitrogen vacancy (NV) center remains an ever-increasing topic of interest. At present, it is considered an ideal example of a solid-state qubit applicable in quantum communication, computing, and sensing alike. With its success, the search for defects that share or improve upon its advantageous features is an ongoing endeavor. By performing large-scale high-throughput screening of 52 600 defects in 4H silicon carbide (SiC), we identify a collection of NV-like color centers of particular interest. From this list, the single most promising candidate consists of a silicon vacancy and chlorine substituted on the carbon site, and is given the name of chlorine vacancy (ClV) center. Through high-accuracy first-principle calculations, we confirm that the ClV center is similar to the NV center in diamond in its local structure and shares many qualitative and quantitative features in the electronic structure and spin properties. In contrast to the NV center, however, the ClV center in SiC exhibits emission in the telecom range near the C band.
Combining non-Hermiticity and interactions yields unique effects in open quantum many-body systems. Here, we develop the generalized Schrieffer-Wolff transformation, discuss its symmetry properties, and derive the effective Hamiltonian suitable for various quasidegenerate non-Hermitian systems. We apply our results to an exemplary PT -symmetric circuit QED composed of two non-Hermitian qubits embedded in a lossless resonator. We consider a resonant quantum circuit as |ω r -| ω r , where and ω r are qubits and resonator frequencies, respectively, providing well-defined groups of quasidegenerate resonant states. For such a system, using direct numerical diagonalization we obtain the dependence of the low-lying eigenspectrum on the interaction strength between a single qubit and the resonator g and the gain (loss) parameter γ , and compare that with the eigenvalues obtained analytically using the effective Hamiltonian of resonant states. We identify PT -symmetry broken and unbroken phases, trace the formation of exceptional points of the second and the third order, and provide a complete phase diagram g -γ of low-lying resonant states. We relate the formation of exceptional points to the additional P-pseudo-Hermitian symmetry of the system and show that non-Hermiticity mixes the "dark" and the "bright" states, which has a direct experimental consequence.
We study an analytically solvable and experimentally relevant number-conserving periodically driven p-wave superconductor. Such a system is found to support generalized Majorana zero and π modes, which, despite being non-Hermitian, are still capable of encoding qubits. Moreover, appropriate winding numbers characterizing the topology of such generalized Majorana modes are defined and explicitly calculated. We further discuss the fate of the obtained generalized Majorana modes in the presence of finite charging energy. Finally, we shed light on the quantum computing prospects of such modes by demonstrating the robustness of their encoded qubits and explicitly braiding a pair of generalized Majorana modes.
Random quantum circuits are paradigmatic models of minimally structured and analytically tractable chaotic dynamics. We study a family of Floquet unitary circuits with Haar random U (1) charge conserving dynamics; the minimal such model has nearest-neighbor gates acting on spin-1/2 qubits, and a single layer of even/odd gates repeated periodically in time. We find that this minimal model is not robustly thermalizing at numerically accessible system sizes, and displays slow subdiffusive dynamics for long times. We map out the thermalization dynamics in a broader parameter space of charge conserving circuits, and understand the origin of the slow dynamics in terms of proximate localized and integrable regimes in parameter space. In contrast, we find that small extensions to the minimal model are sufficient to achieve robust thermalization; these include (i) increasing the interaction range to three-site gates, (ii) increasing the local Hilbert space dimension by appending an additional unconstrained qubit to the conserved charge on each site, or (iii) using a larger Floquet period comprised of two independent layers of gates. Our results should inform future studies of charge conserving circuits, which are relevant for a wide range of topical theoretical questions.
We investigate bipartite entanglement between two distant parties, A and B, comprising local magnetic impurities (or qudits) induced by the quench through sd exchange in a field-effect transistor geometry. A wave-function-based time-dependent formalism is employed by including non-dissipative responses that allow for the control of entanglement via gate voltages. Our study focuses on the birth (or origin) and early growth of entanglement, by introducing environment support states that render site-and layer-resolved logarithmic negativity (LN) and mutual information (MI). In the minimal set, where party A (B) consists of a qubit, we identify entanglement sudden deaths (ESDs), which are explained by a visualization picture analyzing the density matrix. Vibrating electron currents facilitate the birth of entanglement, while they are not required for its growth and subsistence. The LN emerges near the edge layers in A and B, while MI shows up outside these two parties within the spacing layer. The MI is born earlier than the LN. When a gate voltage large enough to disjoint part of the system is applied within the spacing region, it partially suppresses the entanglement, quantified by the LN. This suppression does not appear immediately after the presence of the disjoint voltage. Applying this disjoint voltage to the site(s) hosting the qubit(s) helps prevent the site-and layer-resolved LN from encountering ESDs. The local impurities in parties A and B are initially of opposite spin directions in an unentangled state, as can be prepared by two of our proposed protocols. However, the features described above do not depend on the chosen protocols.
Fe(Se,Te) is one of the simplest compounds of iron-based superconductors, but it shows a variety of vortex pinning phenomena both in thin-film and single-crystal forms. These properties are particularly important in light of its potential for applications ranging from the development of coated conductors for high-field magnets to topological quantum computation exploiting the Majorana particles found in the superconducting vortex cores. In this paper, we characterize the pinning properties of FeSe 0.4 Te 0.6 single crystals, both pristine and Au-irradiated, with a set of characterization techniques ranging from the static limit to the GHz frequency range by using dc magnetometry, ac susceptibility measurements of both the fundamental and the third harmonic signals, and by microwave coplanar waveguide resonator measurements of London and Campbell penetration depths. We observed signatures of single vortex pinning that can be modeled by a parabolic pinning potential, dissipation caused by flux creep, and a general enhancement of the critical current density after 320 MeV Au ion irradiation.
Materials featuring the kagome configuration hold significant research potential following their discovery. Drawing inspiration from MgB 2 , we introduce a kagome topological superconducting family: XB 3 (X = Ni, Pd). This prediction is based on first-principles calculations and an analysis of bulk-edge correspondence. In this family, the boron atoms transition from their original honeycomb arrangement to form a stable kagome lattice, as confirmed by the phonon spectrum analysis. Through the calculations of the topological invariant and surface states, we establish that these materials belong to the Z 2 Dirac metal category with nodal surface characteristics. Employing the Allen-Dynes modified McMillan formula, we anticipate superconducting critical temperatures, denoted as T c , of 14.5 K for NiB 3 and 19.1 K for PdB 3 . These values surpass most of both conventional topological superconductors' candidates and kagome superconductors due to the relatively robust electron-phonon coupling. Moreover, the spin texture analysis of the Dirac cone at the high symmetry point K lends further support to their status as topological superconductors. Consequently, the XB 3 family presents an exciting platform for experimental investigations into topological superconductors and their potential applications in fault-tolerant quantum computation.
A two-dimensional topological superconductor (TSC) represents an exotic quantum material with quasiparticle excitation manifesting in dispersive Majorana modes (DMMs) at the boundaries. A domain-wall DMM can arise at the boundary between two TSC domains with opposite Chern numbers or with a π -phase shift in their pairing gap, which can only be tuned by a magnetic field. Here we propose the concept of a ferroelectric (FE) TSC, which not only enriches the domain-wall DMMs but also significantly makes them electrically tunable. The π -phase shift of the pairing gap is shown to be attained between two TSC domains of opposite FE polarization, and switchable by reversing FE polarizations. In combination with ferromagnetic (FM) polarization, the domain wall can host helical, doubled chiral, and fused DMMs, which can be transferred into each other by changing the direction of the electrical and/or magnetic field. Furthermore, based on first-principles calculations, we demonstrate α-In 2 Se 3 to be a promising FE TSC candidate in proximity with a FM layer and a superconductor substrate. We envision that a FE TSC will significantly ease the manipulation of a DMM by electrical field to realize fault-tolerant quantum computation.
PbTaS 2 is a metal intercalated, layered transition metal dichalcogenide compound which has recently been predicted to be a potential topological superconductor (TSC), with a superconducting transition temperature of 2.6 K. Besides the strong interest in this class of materials, because of their high potential in quantum-computing applications, many aspects of their phenomenology are still undisclosed. Combining angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy measurements and density functional theory calculations, we have studied the electronic properties of the centrosymmetric type-II superconductor PbTaS 2 single crystals in the metallic phase, showing the presence of surface states, originated from the Pb-terminated surface, and of topological nodal lines, formed by the crossing of Ta d xy /d x 2 -y 2 and Pb p x /p y orbitals. The evidence of surface states connecting the nodal lines, as already discovered on structurally similar materials to be typical features of nodal-line semimetal-like TSCs, makes PbTaS 2 a good candidate for exploring topological superconductivity.
Quantum computing demands innovative approaches for realizing qubits, and one promising avenue involves leveraging gated hybridized van der Waals (vdW) vertical heterostructures, referred to as vdW qubits. The two-level system that characterizes the vdW qubit comes from the layer-dependent orbital character of the charge carrier. This paper investigates the potential of gated vdW heterostructures for quantum computing. We study how gate fields affect the orbital composition of bands, enabling spatial superposition of electrons across layers of two-dimensional materials. Our ab initio calculations assess 20 transition metal dichalcogenides, identifying layers with slight energy offsets as vdW qubit candidates. Our investigation extends to the heterostructures formed based on the layered materials meeting these criteria. To simulate these qubits within large quantum circuits efficiently, we employ the tight-binding approach with maximally localized Wannier functions, validated against full ab initio calculations. At zero field, we confirm the existence of highly hybridized states that manifest as a qubit state exhibiting an approximately equal distribution between |0 and |1 . The electric field application serves as a modulator for adjusting the contribution of these states. This phenomenon is general and is explored in the context of four distinct heterostructures. In addition, our study identified 222 possible combinations matching different layers on the conduction or the valence as promising host heterostructures for implementing vdW qubits.
Self-assembled InAs quantum dots (QDs), which have long hole spin coherence times and are amenable to optical control schemes, have long been explored as building blocks for qubit architectures. One such design consists of vertically stacking two QDs to create a quantum dot molecule. The two dots can be resonantly tuned to form "moleculelike" coupled hole states from the hybridization of hole states otherwise localized in each respective dot. Furthermore, spin mixing of the hybridized states in dots offset along their stacking direction enables qubit rotation to be driven optically, allowing for an all-optical qubit control scheme. Increasing the magnitude of this spin mixing is important for optical quantum control protocols. To enhance the tunnel coupling and spin mixing across the dots, we introduce Bi in the GaAs interdot barrier. Previously, we showed how to model InAs/GaBi x As 1-x in an atomistic tight-binding formalism, and how the dot energy levels are affected by the alloy. In this paper, we discuss the lowering of the tunnel barrier, which results in a threefold increase of hole tunnel coupling strength in the presence of a 7% alloy. Additionally, we show how an asymmetric strain between the two dots caused by the alloy shifts the resonance. Finally, we discuss device geometries for which the introduction of Bi is most advantageous.
Topological superconductors have attracted tremendous interest in recent years because of their fundamental importance and potential applications in topological quantum computing. Here, using a monolayered Pb(111) film grown on a NbSe 2 substrate as an example, we show that it is possible to render a hybrid superconducting system nontrivial topology by combining two conventional s-wave superconductors with sufficiently strong spinorbit coupling (SOC). We first demonstrate, based on first-principles calculations, that the monolayered Pb(111) film is stable on NbSe 2 , and the system possesses a nonzero Z 2 topological invariant as well as Dirac-like edge states. Such a nontrivial topology originates from hybridization of the Pb and NbSe 2 bands, associated with a gap closure and reopening process in the presence of SOC. We further reveal that the (3 × 3)-type charge density wave (CDW) on the NbSe 2 surface is converted into a (2 × 2)-type CDW for the heterosystem, and the nontrivial topology is inherited in the CDW phase. Moreover, the CDW phase is still superconducting, albeit with a reduced transition temperature, exhibiting delicate competitions between the CDW and superconducting orders. Our findings offer opportunities for realizing topological superconductivity based on conventional s-wave superconductors.
Confinement is a paradigmatic phenomenon of gauge theories, and its understanding lies at the forefront of high-energy physics. Here, we study confinement in a simple one-dimensional Z 2 lattice gauge theory at finite temperature and filling, which is within the reach of current cold-atom and superconducting-qubit platforms. By employing matrix product states (MPS) calculations, we investigate the decay of the finite-temperature Green's function and uncover a smooth crossover between the confined and deconfined regimes. Furthermore, using the Friedel oscillations and string length distributions obtained from snapshots sampled from MPS, both of which are experimentally readily available, we verify that confined mesons remain well-defined at arbitrary finite temperature. This phenomenology is further supported by probing quench dynamics of mesons with exact diagonalization. Our results shed new light on confinement at finite temperature from an experimentally relevant standpoint.
Understanding how and to what magnitude solid-state qubits couple to metallic wires is crucial to the design of quantum systems such as quantum computers. Here, we investigate the coupling between a multilevel system, or qudit, and a superconducting (SC) resonator's electromagnetic field, focusing on the interaction involving both the transition and diagonal dipole moments of the qudit. Specifically, we explore the effective dynamical (time-dependent) longitudinal coupling that arises when a solid-state qudit is adiabatically modulated at small gate frequencies and amplitudes, in addition to a static dispersive interaction with the SC resonator. We derive Hamiltonians describing the longitudinal multilevel interactions in a general dispersive regime, encompassing both dynamical longitudinal and dispersive interactions. These Hamiltonians smoothly transition between their adiabatic values, where the couplings of the nth level are proportional to the level's energy curvature concerning a qudit gate voltage, and the substantially larger dispersive values, which occur due to a resonant form factor. We provide several examples illustrating the transition from adiabatic to dispersive coupling in different qubit systems, including the charge (1e double quantum dot) qubit, the transmon, the double-quantum-dot singlettriplet qubit, and the triple-quantum-dot exchange-only qubit. In some of these qubits, higher-energy levels play a critical role, particularly when their qubit's dipole moment is minimal or zero. For an experimentally relevant scenario involving a spin-charge qubit with magnetic field gradient coupled capacitively to a SC resonator, we showcase the potential of the dynamical longitudinal coupling. It enables close-to-quantum-limited quantum nondemolition measurements and remote geometric phase gates, demonstrating its practical utility in quantum information processing.
Understanding how and to what magnitude solid-state qubits couple to metallic wires is crucial to the design of quantum systems such as quantum computers. Here, we investigate the coupling between a multilevel system, or qudit, and a superconducting (SC) resonator's electromagnetic field, focusing on the interaction involving both the transition and diagonal dipole moments of the qudit. Specifically, we explore the effective dynamical (time-dependent) longitudinal coupling that arises when a solid-state qudit is adiabatically modulated at small gate frequencies and amplitudes, in addition to a static dispersive interaction with the SC resonator. We derive Hamiltonians describing the longitudinal multilevel interactions in a general dispersive regime, encompassing both dynamical longitudinal and dispersive interactions. These Hamiltonians smoothly transition between their adiabatic values, where the couplings of the nth level are proportional to the level's energy curvature concerning a qudit gate voltage, and the substantially larger dispersive values, which occur due to a resonant form factor. We provide several examples illustrating the transition from adiabatic to dispersive coupling in different qubit systems, including the charge (1e double quantum dot) qubit, the transmon, the double-quantum-dot singlettriplet qubit, and the triple-quantum-dot exchange-only qubit. In some of these qubits, higher-energy levels play a critical role, particularly when their qubit's dipole moment is minimal or zero. For an experimentally relevant scenario involving a spin-charge qubit with magnetic field gradient coupled capacitively to a SC resonator, we showcase the potential of the dynamical longitudinal coupling. It enables close-to-quantum-limited quantum nondemolition measurements and remote geometric phase gates, demonstrating its practical utility in quantum information processing.
The stabilization of quantum spin liquids is vital to realize applications in spintronics and quantum computing. The unique magnetic structure of Ba 2 CuTeO 6 comprising coupled spin ladders with finite interladder coupling brings the system close to the quantum critical point. This opens up possibilities to stabilize unconventional magnetic phases by tailoring the intra-and interladder exchange couplings. Here, we demonstrate a spin-liquidlike phase in Ba 2 CuTeO 6 using the method of chemical substitution. We choose nonmagnetic La 3+ cation to substitute the Ba 2+ in Ba 2 CuTeO 6 and present signature fingerprints such as a deprived magnetic transition, nondispersive ac susceptibility, magnetic-field-independent heat capacity, and a broad Raman continuum supporting the emergence of a spin-liquid-like phase. We believe that increased magnetic frustration and spin fractionalization upon chemical substitution play a crucial role in driving such a state. In addition, temperature and magnetic-field-dependent phonon responses indicate the presence of magnetostriction (spin-lattice coupling) in La-doped Ba 2 CuTeO 6 , a notable property of spin liquids.
Superconductors possessing diverse symmetry-enforced topological states have been a subject of intense interest as they are arguably one of the most feasible candidates to realize so-called topological superconductivity, a source of Majorana fermions that hold great promise for topological quantum computing. Here we study the low-lying quasiparticle excitations in the superconducting intermetallic alloy V 2 Ga 5 by low-temperature heat capacity and ultra-low-temperature thermal conductivity measurements. It is found that its electronic specific heat can be fitted by either a d-wave gap or two s-wave gaps. However, the low-T thermal conductivity clearly points to the multiple nodeless energy gaps in its low-lying excitation spectrum. On the other hand, first-principles calculations reveal a multitude of topological fermions near the Fermi level, involving discrete Dirac nodes as well as Dirac nodal lines. These topological carriers, when condensed into Cooper pairs, provide a natural platform for achieving topologically nontrivial phases and possible Majorana fermions.
In this work we propose a solid-state platform for creating quantum simulators based on implanted spin centers in semiconductors. We show that under the presence of an external magnetic field, an array of S = 1 spin centers interacting through magnetic dipole-dipole interaction can be mapped into an effective spin-half system equivalent to the XYZ model in an external magnetic field. Interestingly, this system presents a wide range of quantum phases and critical behaviors that can be controlled via magnetic field and orientational arrangement of the spin centers. We demonstrate our interacting spin chain can be tuned to both isotropic Heisenberg model and transverse-field Ising universality class. Notably, our model contains a line where the system is in a critical floating phase that terminates at Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless and Pokrovsky-Talapov transition points. We propose this system as a solid-state quantum simulator for the floating phase based on spin centers.
The dynamics of magnetization and current-voltage characteristics of the superconductor-ferromagnetsuperconductor ϕ 0 Josephson junction in the presence of external electromagnetic radiation have been studied. Effects of the electric and magnetic components of radiation on the magnetic precession in the ferromagnetic layer are investigated. The implementation of two types of dynamical states of magnetization is demonstrated. These states have a phase shift of π in the synchronization region of magnetic precession and Josephson oscillations and differ in the nature of their time dependence. Transitions between these states with increasing and decreasing bias current show hysteresis, which is reflected in the bifurcation diagram and as spikes in the current-voltage characteristics. We also provide an experimental way to test the obtained results by measuring the phase shift in voltage temporal dependence at fixed current value for both sweeping directions. The results obtained can find application in various fields of superconducting spintronics and quantum computing.
Studying magnetic properties of LiTmF 4 , a recognized insulating Van Vleck paramagnet, can hold promise for advancements in quantum computing, MRI, spintronics, material design, and potentially, single-photon technologies. This study may be pivotal due to challenges in simulating noncollinear magnetism using density functional theory (DFT), requiring more sophisticated spin configurations and time-consuming spin relaxations or embedded dynamical mean field theory. Instead, we utilize two distinct efficient and reliable schemesab initio DFT and a semiempirical superposition model, both integrated with crystal field (CF) theory (including Zeeman effect) and underpinned by statistical mechanics-to analyze noncollinear paramagnetic properties. At the core of this investigation is the S 4 site symmetry of the Tm 3+ ion, which admits several sets of six (seven) independent CF parameters (CFPs) under the reduced (complete) approach generated by suitable rotations of the coordinate system. By applying the Noether theorem, we show that these numerically distinct sets are physically equivalent. This is evidenced by computing the several conserved CFP quantities predicted by the Noether theorem, which exhibit notable coherence across different data sets. Using one of these equivalent sets of 7 CF parameters, as computed in [Phys. Rev. B 102, 045120 (2020)] under the complete approach, this study explores the theoretical analysis of multiplet splitting induced by the CF and the external magnetic field within the Tm 3+ ion lattice in LiTmF 4 . We investigate the magnetic moment per ion and the temperature dependencies of magnetic susceptibility, utilizing a Hamiltonian, including the free ion, CF terms, and Zeeman interaction. The agreement of our findings with existing experimental data accentuates the efficacy of the proposed approach in reproducing magnetic properties in LiTmF 4 , providing a significant analytical tool for the analysis of EPR spectra in terms of the defined Zeeman g tensor. This research may stand as a pivotal guide in the accurate determination of magnetic properties, potentially influencing significant advancements in technology and materials science.
Studying magnetic properties of LiTmF 4 , a recognized insulating Van Vleck paramagnet, can hold promise for advancements in quantum computing, MRI, spintronics, material design, and potentially, single-photon technologies. This study may be pivotal due to challenges in simulating noncollinear magnetism using density functional theory (DFT), requiring more sophisticated spin configurations and time-consuming spin relaxations or embedded dynamical mean field theory. Instead, we utilize two distinct efficient and reliable schemesab initio DFT and a semiempirical superposition model, both integrated with crystal field (CF) theory (including Zeeman effect) and underpinned by statistical mechanics-to analyze noncollinear paramagnetic properties. At the core of this investigation is the S 4 site symmetry of the Tm 3+ ion, which admits several sets of six (seven) independent CF parameters (CFPs) under the reduced (complete) approach generated by suitable rotations of the coordinate system. By applying the Noether theorem, we show that these numerically distinct sets are physically equivalent. This is evidenced by computing the several conserved CFP quantities predicted by the Noether theorem, which exhibit notable coherence across different data sets. Using one of these equivalent sets of 7 CF parameters, as computed in [Phys. Rev. B 102, 045120 (2020)] under the complete approach, this study explores the theoretical analysis of multiplet splitting induced by the CF and the external magnetic field within the Tm 3+ ion lattice in LiTmF 4 . We investigate the magnetic moment per ion and the temperature dependencies of magnetic susceptibility, utilizing a Hamiltonian, including the free ion, CF terms, and Zeeman interaction. The agreement of our findings with existing experimental data accentuates the efficacy of the proposed approach in reproducing magnetic properties in LiTmF 4 , providing a significant analytical tool for the analysis of EPR spectra in terms of the defined Zeeman g tensor. This research may stand as a pivotal guide in the accurate determination of magnetic properties, potentially influencing significant advancements in technology and materials science.
Parafermions are anyons with the potential for realizing nonlocal qubits that are resilient to local perturbations. Compared with Majorana zero modes, braiding of parafermions implements an extended set of topologically protected quantum gates. This, however, comes at the price that parafermionic zero modes cannot be realized in the absence of strong interactions, posing a challenge for their theoretical depiction. In this paper, we construct a simple lattice model for interacting spinful electrons with parafermionic zero-energy modes. The explicit microscopic nature of the considered model highlights realization avenues for these exotic excitations in recently fabricated quantum dot arrays. By density matrix renormalization group calculations, we identify a broad range of parameters, with well-localized zero modes, whose parafermionic nature is substantiated by their unique 8π periodic Josephson spectrum.
Parafermions are anyons with the potential for realizing nonlocal qubits that are resilient to local perturbations. Compared with Majorana zero modes, braiding of parafermions implements an extended set of topologically protected quantum gates. This, however, comes at the price that parafermionic zero modes cannot be realized in the absence of strong interactions, posing a challenge for their theoretical depiction. In this paper, we construct a simple lattice model for interacting spinful electrons with parafermionic zero-energy modes. The explicit microscopic nature of the considered model highlights realization avenues for these exotic excitations in recently fabricated quantum dot arrays. By density matrix renormalization group calculations, we identify a broad range of parameters, with well-localized zero modes, whose parafermionic nature is substantiated by their unique 8π periodic Josephson spectrum.
The mechanical behavior of short atomic chains under the action of a scanning tunneling microscope ͑STM͒ tip is investigated from computerized simulations. The calculation of the constrained atomic positions is performed with a molecular-dynamics approach. The system studied consists of N(1рNр5) xenon atoms located in the Cu͑110͒-surface/tetragonal Cu-tip interface. The tunneling current calculation is based on the elastic scattering quantum chemistry method. The combination of these two descriptions ͑electric and mechani-cal͒ allows the behavior of the adsorbates to be described precisely. In particular, when working in the operational constant current mode, our numerical scheme behaves as a realistic virtual STM that allows an accurate prediction of the intrinsic mechanisms involved in similar experiments. In a first stage, for a single atom we present a diagram summarizing the different possible mechanisms versus the different initial conditions. By adding a second adsorbate, we establish a relation between the adsorbate spacing and the evolution of the tip trajectory ͓the so-called feedback loop signal ͑FLS͔͒. Finally, we present a discussion on the shape of such FLS signals when a linear chain composed of five Xe atoms is laterally pushed by the tip. The extraction of quantitative information on the adsorbate configurations during the manipulation is also addressed.
On the basis of a microscopic proximity effect model, the critical current of superconductor/ferromagnet/ insulator/ferromagnet/superconductor ͑SFIFS͒ and superconductor/ferromagnet/insulator/superconductor Josephson junctions have been calculated. Both metals, a superconductor ͑S͒ and a ferromagnet (F), are supposed to be in a ''dirty'' limit and the thickness of the F layer is assumed to be small compared to its coherence length. It is shown that critical current in the SFIFS contact can reverse its sign and a crossover to the '''' state of the junction takes place even at a mesoscopic thickness of the F layer. We discuss, how by changing the SF sandwich parameters ͑a ferromagnetic exchange field, boundary transparency, and strength of proximity effect͒ the conditions for crossover from ''0'' to '''' phase shift across the contact are changed.
We treat the interaction of light with a spherical GaAs-͑Ga,Al͒As quantum dot within a dressed-band approach. The Kane band-structure scheme is used to model the GaAs bulk semiconductor and the interaction with the laser field is treated through the renormalization of the semiconductor energy gap and conduction/ valence effective masses. This approach, valid far from resonances, is used to investigate the light shifts induced in the electronic and shallow on-center donor states in semiconductor quantum dots, which are shown to be quite considerable. This model calculation may be extended to include magnetic-field effects, and it is suggested that the strong localization of the electronic and impurity states due to the quantum dot and enhanced by laser confinement may prove useful for manipulation of electronic and donor states in some proposed solid-state-based quantum computers.
We present a design for a charge qubit, and an associated ''quantum sample and hold'' measurement scheme. Using arrays of superconducting islands, connected by tunable tunnel junctions, we can ''sample'' the charge states by turning off the Josephson coupling, and then ''hold'' a Cooper pair on an island for a very long time. This allows for a slow readout using a conventional weakly coupled low-frequency single-electron transistor.
We study numerically the dynamics of two-qubit gates with superconducting charge qubits. The exact ratio of E J to E L and the corresponding operation time are calculated in order to implement two-qubit gates. We investigate the effect of finite rise and fall times of pulses in realization of two-qubit gates. It is found that the error in implementing two-qubit gates grows quadratically in rise and fall times of pulses.
We have measured the optical absorption due to an exciton confined to a single interface fluctuation quantum dot by directly measuring the transmission through both a submicron aperture and near-field microscopy. The measurements reveal large dipole moments approaching 100 D at 6 K. These results are compared to theoretical predictions based on a physical size estimated from photoluminescence excitation spectroscopy. The very large dipole moment makes these quantum dots attractive candidates for use in microcavities and quantum logic gates.
Direct phonon spin-lattice relaxation of an electron qubit bound by a donor impurity or quantum dot in SiGe heterostructures is investigated. The aim is to evaluate the importance of decoherence from this mechanism in several important solid-state quantum computer designs operating at low temperatures. We calculate the relaxation rate 1/T 1 as a function of ͓100͔ uniaxial strain, temperature, magnetic field, and silicon/germanium content for Si:P bound electrons and quantum dots. The quantum dot potential is much smoother, leading to smaller splittings of the valley degeneracies. We have estimated these splittings in order to obtain upper bounds for the relaxation rate. In general, we find that the relaxation rate is strongly decreased by uniaxial compressive strain in a SiGe-Si-SiGe quantum well, making this strain an important positive design feature. Ge in high concentrations ͑particularly over 85%͒ increases the rate, making Si-rich materials preferable. We conclude that SiGe bound electron qubits must meet certain conditions to minimize decoherence but that spin-phonon relaxation does not rule out the solid-state implementation of error-tolerant quantum computing.
A three-level scheme for implementing single-qubit operations in superconducting quantum interference devices is proposed and analyzed. We show that, compared with the conventional two-level scheme, the proposed three-level qubit scheme is much faster and has a much lower intrinsic error rate.
We propose an unambiguous signature for detecting quantum superposition states in a nanostructure, based on current ultrafast spectroscopy techniques. The reliable generation of such superposition states via Hadamard-like quantum gates is crucial for implementing solid-state based quantum information schemes. The signature originates from a remarkably strong photon antibunching effect which is enhanced by non-Markovian dynamics.
We describe the dynamics of fluxons moving in a frustrated Josephson junction with p-, d-, and f-wave symmetry and calculate the I-V characteristics. The behavior of fluxons is quite distinct in the long-and short-length junction limits. For long junctions the intrinsic flux is bound at the center and the moving integer fluxon or antifluxon interacts with it only when it approaches the junction's center. For small junctions the intrinsic flux can move as a bunched-type fluxon introducing additional steps in the I-V characteristics. A possible realization in quantum computation is presented.
We calculate the full-frequency spectral density of voltage fluctuations in a single-electron transistor ͑SET͒, used as an electrometer biased above the Coulomb threshold so that the current through the SET is carried by sequential tunneling events. We consider both a normal-state SET and a superconducting SET. The whole spectrum, from low-frequency telegraph noise to quantum noise at frequencies comparable to the SET charging energy (E C /ប) to high-frequency Nyquist noise, is described. We take the energy exchange between the SET and the measured system into account using a real-time diagrammatic Keldysh technique. The voltage fluctuations determine the backaction of the SET on the measured system, and we specifically discuss the case of superconducting charge qubit read-out and measuring the so-called Coulomb staircase of a single Cooper-pair box.
Spins based in silicon provide one of the most promising architectures for quantum computing. A scalable design for silicon-germanium quantum-dot qubits is presented. The design incorporates vertical and lateral tunneling. Simulations of a four-qubit array suggest that the design will enable single electron occupation of each dot of a many-dot array. Performing two-qubit operations has negligible effect on other qubits in the array. Simulation results are used to translate error correction requirements into specifications for gate-voltage control electronics. This translation is a necessary link between error correction theory and device physics.
We propose an implementation scheme for holonomic, i.e., geometrical, quantum information processing based on semiconductor nanostructures. Our quantum hardware consists of coupled semiconductor macroatoms addressed/controlled by ultrafast multicolor laser-pulse sequences. More specifically, logical qubits are encoded in excitonic states with different spin polarizations and manipulated by adiabatic time control of the laser amplitudes. The two-qubit gate is realized in a geometric fashion by exploiting dipole-dipole coupling between excitons in neighboring quantum dots.
We examine a 31 P donor electron spin in a Si crystal to be used for the purpose of quantum computation. The interaction with an uncontrolled system of 29 Si nuclear spins influences the electron-spin dynamics appreciably. The hyperfine field at the 29 Si nuclei positions is noncollinear with the external magnetic field. Quantum operations with the electron wave function, i.e., using magnetic-field pulses or electrical gates, change the orientation of hyperfine field and disturb the nuclear-spin system. This disturbance produces a deviation of the electron spin qubit from an ideal state, at a short-time scale in comparison with the nuclear-spin diffusion time. For H ext Ϸ9 T, the estimated error rate is comparable to the threshold value required by the quantum error correction algorithms. The rate is lower at higher external magnetic fields.
We have investigated the properties of biepitaxial YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7Ϫ␦ grain boundary Josephson junctions, which appear to be characterized by low barrier transmission probabilities. Extrinsic and intrinsic d-wave effects are discussed within the framework of novel designs for -circuitry and qubits. The absence of spontaneous magnetization and of the consequent additional noise, in a wide range of experimental conditions, seems to be encouraging for designs of ''quiet'' devices.
Transport through a metallic carbon nanotube is considered, where electrons are injected in the bulk by a scanning tunneling microscope tip. The charge current and noise are computed. For an infinite homogeneous nanotube, the shot noise exhibits effective charges different from the electron charge. Noise correlations between both ends of the nanotube are positive, and occur to second order only in the tunneling amplitude. The positive correlations are symptomatic of an entanglement phenomenon between quasiparticles moving right and left from the tip. This entanglement involves many body states of the boson operators which describe the collective excitations of the Luttinger liquid.
Single-electron transistors have been proposed to be used as a read-out device for Cooper pair charge qubits.
The low-temperature spin dynamics of a Fe 8 single-molecule magnet was studied under circularly polarized electromagnetic radiation allowing us to establish clearly photon-assisted tunneling. This effect, while linear at low power, becomes highly nonlinear above a relatively low-power threshold. Heating due to phonon emission, spin-spin interactions, and coherent emission/absorption of photons might lead to the observed nonlinearity. These results are of importance if such systems are to be used as quantum computers.
Quantum confinement, magnetic-field effects, and laser coupling with the two low-lying states of electrons bound to donor impurities in semiconductors may be used to coherently manipulate the two-level donor system in order to establish the appropriate operational conditions of basic quantum bits ͑qubits͒ for solid-state based quantum computers. Here we present a theoretical calculation of the damped Rabi oscillations and time evolution of the 1s and 2p ϩ donor states in bulk GaAs under an external magnetic field and in the presence of terahertz laser radiation, and their influence on the measured photocurrent. We also discuss the possible experimental conditions under which decoherence is weak and qubit operations are efficiently controlled.
We study the decoherence and the quantum measurement of charge in a qubit consisting of a circular array of Josephson junctions. The two-level system we consider couples the two charge states through a higher-order tunneling process thus making it possible to achieve a long relaxation time. Using the spin-boson Hamiltonian, we estimate decoherence due to ohmic as well as 1/f noise. We simulate the quantum-mechanical measurement process by studying the density matrix of the qubit and a capacitively coupled single-electron transistor that measures the charge.
We have observed signatures of resonant tunneling in an Al three-junction qubit, inductively coupled to a Nb LC tank circuit. The resonant properties of the tank oscillator are sensitive to the effective susceptibility ͑or inductance͒ of the qubit, which changes drastically as its flux states pass through degeneracy. The tunneling amplitude is estimated from the data. We find good agreement with the theoretical predictions in the regime of their validity.
The decoherence times of orthogonally phased components of the optical transition dipole moment in a two-level system have been observed to differ by an order of magnitude. This phase anisotropy is observed in coherent transient experiments where an optical driving field is present during extended periods of decoherence. The decoherence time of the component of the dipole moment in phase with the driving field is extended compared to T 2 , obtained from two-pulse photon echoes, in analogy with the spin locking technique of NMR. This is the first phase-dependent investigation of optical decoherence in the presence of a driving field.
The optical pumping nuclear-magnetic-resonance effect in the compensated semiconductor InP:Fe has been investigated in terms of the dependences of photon energy E p , helicity Ϯ , and exposure time L of infrared lights. The 31 P and 115 In signal enhancements show large Ϯ asymmetries and anomalous oscillations as a function of E p . We find that ͑i͒ the oscillation period as a function of E p is similar for 31 P and 115  In and almost field independent in spite of significant reduction of the enhancement in higher fields. ͑ii͒ A characteristic time for buildup of the 31 P polarization under the light exposure shows strong E p dependence, but is almost independent of Ϯ . ͑iii͒ The buildup times for 31 P and 115  In are of the same order (10 3 s), although the spin-lattice relaxation times T 1 are different by more than three orders of magnitude between them. The results are discussed in terms of ͑1͒ discrete energy spectra due to donor-acceptor pairs in compensated semiconductors and ͑2͒ interplay between 31 P and dipolar ordered indium nuclei, which are optically induced.
We observe a resonance in the conductance of silicon tunneling devices with a ␦-doped barrier. The position of the resonance indicates that it arises from tunneling through the B ϩ state of the boron atoms of the ␦ layer.
Exciton decoherence ͑dephasing͒ properties are examined for the effects of biexcitons in In x Ga 1Ϫx As quantum dots. The dephasing time of higher exciton states is measured from the linewidths of discrete exciton absorption lines by employing a high-energy-resolution microphotoluminescence excitation method in single isolated quantum dots. The excitation intensity dependence and temperature dependence of the exciton linewidth are used to consider the effects of exciton-biexciton and exciton-phonon interactions. The excitation intensity dependence reveals that the exciton-biexciton interaction contributes crucially to the exciton dephasing processes. A numerical calculation undertaken with a density-matrix method interprets this result as an enhancement of the power broadening effect due to coherent coupling between excitons and biexcitons. The temperature dependence indicates that the exciton-biexciton interaction dominates the exciton-phonon interaction below 40 K. These results provide a guideline for achieving a long-lived coherence in quantum dots, which is a key to the implementation of quantum information processing.
We discuss real-space lattice models equivalent to gauge theories with a discrete non-Abelian gauge group. We construct the Hamiltonian formalism which is appropriate for their solid-state physics implementation and outline their basic properties. The unusual physics of these systems is due to local constraints on the degrees of freedom which are variables localized on the links of the lattice. We discuss two types of constraints that become equivalent after a duality transformation for Abelian theories but are qualitatively different for non-Abelian ones. We emphasize highly nontrivial topological properties of the excitations ͑fluxons and charges͒ in these non-Abelian discrete lattice gauge theories. We show that an implementation of these models may provide one with the realization of an ideal quantum computer, that is, the computer that is protected from the noise and allows a full set of precise manipulations required for quantum computations. We suggest a few designs of the Josephson-junction arrays that provide the experimental implementations of these models and discuss the physical restrictions on the parameters of their junctions.
By irradiating with a single ultrafast laser pulse a superconducting electrode of a Josephson junction, it is possible to drive the quasiparticles (qp's) distribution strongly out of equilibrium. The behavior of the Josephson device can, thus, be modified on a fast time scale, shorter than the qp's relaxation time. This could be very useful, in that it allows fast control of Josephson charge qubits and, in general, of all Josephson devices. If the energy released to the top layer contact S1 of the junction is of the order of ϳJ, the coherence is not degradated because the perturbation is very fast. Within the framework of the quasiclassical Keldysh Green's function theory, we find that the order parameter of S1 decreases. We study the perturbed dynamics of the junction, when the current bias is close to the critical current, by integrating numerically its classical equation of motion. The optical ultrafast pulse can produce switchings of the junction from the Josephson state to the voltage state. The switches can be controlled by tuning the laser light intensity, the pulse duration, and the bias current of the Josephson junction.
We have theoretically studied the effect of an electric field on the energy levels of shallow donors and acceptors in silicon. An analysis of the electric field dependence of the lowest energy states in donors and acceptors is presented, taking the band structure into account. A description as hydrogenlike impurities was used for accurate computation of energy levels and lifetimes up to large (several MV/ m) electric fields. All results are discussed in connection with atomic scale electronics and solid state quantum computation.
The coherent manipulation of quantum states is one of the main tasks required in quantum computation. In this paper we demonstrate that it is possible to control coherently the electronic position of a particle in a quantum-dot array. By tuning an external ac electric field we can selectively suppress the tunneling between dots, trapping the particle in a determined region of the array. The problem is treated nonperturbatively by a time-dependent Hamiltonian in the effective mass approximation and using Floquet theory. We find that the quasienergy spectrum exhibits crossings and anticrossings at certain field intensities that result in the selective suppression of tunneling.
We report a theoretical investigation of decoherence induced by energy relaxation of the auxiliary level in the ⌳-type three-level SQUID flux qubits. We show that the energy-relaxation-induced decoherence in this particular case is proportional to the average population of the auxiliary level and thus can be effectively suppressed by the use of a dark-state approach in which the auxiliary level is unpopulated. We demonstrate through bit-flip operation that the dark state can be realized by means of the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP). An extension of the dark-state scheme to create any superposition state is straightforward.
We use millimeter-wave radiation to manipulate the populations of the energy levels of a single crystal of molecular magnet Fe 8 . When continuous-wave radiation is in resonance with the transition from the ground state to the first excited state, the equilibrium magnetization exhibits a peak or dip whose field position varies linearly with the radiation frequency. Our results provide a lower bound of 0.17 ns for transverse relaxation time and suggest the possibility that single-molecule magnets might be utilized for quantum computation.
Electronic and nuclear spins of shallow donors in silicon are attractive candidates for qubits in quantum computer proposals. Shallow donor exchange gates are frequently invoked to perform two-qubit operations in such proposals. We study shallow donor electron properties in Si within the Kohn-Luttinger envelope function approach, incorporating the full Bloch states of the six band edges of the Si conduction band, obtained from ab initio calculations within the density-functional and pseudopotential frameworks. Intervalley interference between the conduction-band-edge states of Si leads to oscillatory behavior in the charge distribution of oneelectron bound states and in the exchange coupling in two-electron states. The behavior in the donor electron charge distribution is strongly influenced by interference from the plane wave and periodic parts of the Bloch functions. For two donors, oscillations in the exchange coupling calculated within the Heitler-London (HL) approach are due to the plane-wave parts of the Bloch functions alone, which are pinned to the impurity sites. The robustness of this result is assessed by relaxing the phase pinning to the donor sites. We introduce a more general theoretical scheme, the floating-phase HL, from which the previously reported donor exchange oscillatory behavior is qualitatively and quantitatively confirmed. The floating-phase formalism provides a "handle" on how to theoretically anticipate the occurrence of oscillatory behavior in electronic properties associated with electron bound states in more general confining potentials, such as in quantum dots.
We implemented experimentally an interferometer-type charge qubit consisting of a single-Cooper-pair transistor closed by a superconducting loop that is in flip-chip configuration inductively coupled to a radiofrequency tank circuit. The tank permits us to readout the qubit state, acting as an inductance measuring apparatus. By applying continuous microwave power to the quantum device, we observed inductance alterations caused by redistributions of the energy-level populations. From the measured data we extracted the energy gap between ground and upper levels as a function of the transistor quasicharge as well as the Josephson phase across both junctions.
In the surface acoustic wave quantum computer, the spin state of an electron trapped in a moving quantum dot comprises the physical qubit of the scheme. Via detailed analytic and numerical modeling of the qubit dynamics, we discuss the effect of excitations into higher-energy orbital states of the quantum dot that occur when the qubits pass through magnetic fields. We describe how single-qubit quantum operations, such as single-qubit rotations and single-qubit measurements, can be performed using only localized static magnetic fields. The models provide useful parameter regimes to be explored experimentally when the requirements on semiconductor gate fabrication and the nanomagnetics technology are met in the future.
As part of a search for suitable materials for coherent quantum operations, relaxation times and hyperfine structure of the 1 D 2 ͑1͒-3 H 4 ͑1͒ transition in Pr 3+ :KY͑WO 4 ͒ 2 (0.29 at. %) at 4 K have been obtained using photon-echo and spectral hole burning techniques. The homogeneous linewidth and the effect of excitationinduced dephasing were measured using two-pulse photon-echo techniques. Linewidths of 23.4± 1.0 and 17.6± 0.9 kHz were obtained in the absence and presence of an external magnetic field of about 9 mT. The radiative lifetime ͑T 1 ͒ of the 1 D 2 state was measured to be 43± 2 s using time-resolved laser-induced fluorescence and three-pulse photon-echo measurements. The transmission hole spectra were measured and directly yielded the quadrupole level splitting in the 1 D 2 (3.77± 0.03 and 4.58± 0.04 MHz) and 3 H 4 (17.1± 0.1 and 33.2± 0.3 MHz) states. The spectral hole lifetime due to population redistribution between the ground-state nuclear levels was also determined to be 70± 10 ms. A strong dipole-dipole interaction observed in this crystal opens for potential applications in quantum computing schemes for performing quantum logic operations, but the short dephasing time makes it less useful in data storage applications.
We propose a design for a quantum bit with four superconducting islands in the topology of a symmetric tetrahedron, uniformly frustrated with one-half flux quantum per loop and one-half Cooper pair per island. This structure emulates a noise-resistant spin-1 / 2 system in a vanishing magnetic field. The tetrahedral quantum bit combines a number of advances such as a doubly degenerate ground state minimizing decoherence via phonon radiation, a weak quadratic sensitivity to electric and magnetic noise, relieved constraints on the junction fabrication, a large freedom in manipulation, and attractive measurement schemes. The simultaneous appearance of a degenerate ground state and a weak noise sensitivity are consequences of the tetrahedral symmetry, while enhanced quantum fluctuations derive from the special magnetic frustration. We determine the spectral properties of the tetrahedral structure within a semiclassical analysis and confirm the results numerically. We show how proper tuning of the charge frustration selects a doubly degenerate ground state and discuss the qubit's manipulation through capacitive and inductive coupling to external bias sources. The complete readout of the spin components i , i = x , y , z, is achieved through coupling of the internal qubit currents to external junctions driven close to criticality during the measurement.
We present general symmetry arguments that show the appearance of doubly degenerate states protected from external perturbations in a wide class of Hamiltonians. We construct the simplest spin Hamiltonian belonging to this class and study its properties both analytically and numerically. We find that this model generally has a number of low energy modes which might destroy the protection in the thermodynamic limit. These modes are qualitatively different from the usual gapless excitations as their number scales as the linear size (instead of volume) of the system. We show that the Hamiltonians with this symmetry can be physically implemented in Josephson junction arrays and that in these arrays one can eliminate the low energy modes with a proper boundary condition. We argue that these arrays provide fault tolerant quantum bits. Further we show that the simplest spin model with this symmetry can be mapped to a very special Z 2 Chern-Simons model on the square lattice. We argue that appearance of the low energy modes and the protected degeneracy is a natural property of lattice Chern-Simons theories. Finally, we discuss a general formalism for the construction of discrete Chern-Simons theories on a lattice.
We discuss how a single Cooper-pair transistor may be used to detect the superconducting phase difference by using the phase dependence of the input capacitance from gate to ground. The proposed device has a low power dissipation because its operation is in principle free from quasiparticle generation. According to the sensitivity estimates, the device may be used for efficient qubit readout in a galvanically isolated and symmetrized circuit.
In a quantum ring connected with two external leads, the spin properties of an incoming electron are modified by the spin-orbit interaction, resulting in a transformation of the qubit state carried by the spin. The ring acts as a one-qubit spintronic quantum gate whose properties can be varied by tuning the Rashba parameter of the spin-orbit interaction, by changing the relative position of the junctions, as well as by the size of the ring. We show that a large class of unitary transformations can be attained with already one ring-or a few rings in series-including the important cases of the Z, X, and Hadamard gates. By choosing appropriate parameters the spin transformations can be made unitary, which corresponds to lossless gates.
We present microscopic model calculations of phosphorous ␦-doped silicon. Using the planar Wannier orbitals ͓Y. C. Chang and G
A quantum-mechanical many-particle system may exhibit nonlocal behavior in that measurements performed on one of the particles can affect a second one that is far apart. These so-called entangled states are crucial for the implementation of quantum information protocols and gates for quantum computation. Here, we use ultrafast optical pulses and coherent pump-probe techniques to create and control spin entangled states in an ensemble of up to three non-interacting electrons bound to donors in a Cd 1-x Mn x Te quantum well. Our method, relying on the exchange interaction between optically excited excitons and the paramagnetic impurities, can in principle be applied to entangle an arbitrarily large number of electrons. A microscopic theory of impulsive stimulated Raman scattering and a model for multi-spin entanglement are presented. The signature of entanglement is the observation of overtones of donor spin-flips in the differential reflectivity of the probe pulse. Results are shown for resonant excitation of localized excitons below the gap, and above the gap where the signatures of entanglement are significantly enhanced. Data is also presented on the generation of coherent excitations of antiferromagnetically coupled manganese pairs, folded acoustic phonons, exciton Zeeman beats and entanglement involving two Mn +2 ions.
A flux qubit is designed and fabricated that capitalizes on intrinsic properties of submicron YBCO ͑yttriumbarium-copper oxide high-T c superconductor͒ grain boundary junctions. The operating point is protected from the fluctuations of the external fields, already on the classical level. The effects of external perturbations only appear in the third or fourth order, depending on the character of the coupling. The estimates of the decoherence due to fluctuations of the external flux show that an experimental observation of coherent quantum tunneling and Rabi oscillations in the system is feasible.
The ability of a quantum dot to confine photogenerated electron-hole pairs created interest in the behavior of such an exciton in a "dot molecule," being a possible register in quantum computing. When two quantum dots are brought close together, the quantum state of the exciton may extend across both dots. The exciton wave function in such a dot molecule may exhibit entanglement. Atomistic pseudopotential calculations of the wave function for an electron-hole pair in a dot molecule made of two identical In x Ga 1-x As/ GaAs dots reveal that the common assumption of single-particle wave functions forming bonding and antibonding states is erroneous. The true behavior of single-particle electrons and holes leads to symmetry-broken excitonic two-particle wave functions, dramatically suppressing entanglement. We find that at large interdot separations, the exciton states are built from heteronuclear single-particle states while at small interdot separations the exciton is derived from heteronuclear hole states and homonuclear electron states. We calculate the entanglement of the excitons and find a maximum value of 80% at an interdot separation of 8.5 nm and very small values for larger and smaller distances.
The interaction of Ce@ C 82 with clean and silver-terminated Si͑111͒ surfaces has been studied with synchrotron-radiation photoemission spectroscopy and near-edge x-ray absorption fine-structure ͑NEXAFS͒ spectroscopy. Use of an Ag/ Si͑111͒-͑ ͱ 3 ϫ ͱ 3͒R30°surface as an initial substrate enables the molecule- substrate interaction to be progressively strengthened through controlled annealing. Although strong covalent bonding and distortion of the fullerene cage are observed following the removal of the Ag-induced reconstruction ͑above 550 °C͒, the cerium atom's valence and overall electronic structure, as probed by Ce 3d NEXAFS, appear to be remarkably unaffected.
We consider a quantum dimer model on the kagome lattice, which was introduced recently ͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 137202 ͑2002͔͒. It realizes a Z 2 liquid phase and its spectrum was obtained exactly. It displays a topological degeneracy when the lattice has a nontrivial geometry ͑cylinder, torus, etc͒. We discuss and solve two extensions of the model where perturbations along lines are introduced: first a potential-energy term repelling ͑or attracting͒ the dimers along a line and second, a perturbation allowing to create, move, or destroy monomers. For each of these perturbations we show that there exists a critical value above which, in the thermodynamic limit, the degeneracy of the ground state is lifted from 2 ͑on a cylinder͒ to 1. In both cases the exact value of the gap between the first two levels is obtained by a mapping to an Ising chain in a transverse field. This model provides an example of a solvable Hamiltonian for a topological quantum bit where the two perturbations act as diagonal and transverse operators in the two-dimensional subspace. We discuss how crossing the transitions may be used in the manipulation of the quantum bit to simultaneously optimize the frequency of operation and the losses due to decoherence.
We investigate the decoherence process for a quantum register composed of N qubits coupled to an environment. We consider an environment composed of one common phonon bath and several electronic baths. This environment is relevant to the implementation of a charge based solid-state quantum computer. We explicitly compute the time evolution of all off-diagonal terms of the register's reduced density matrix. We find that in realistic configurations, "superdecoherence" and "decoherence-free subspaces" do not exist for an N-qubit system. This means that all off-diagonal terms decay, but not faster than e -q͑t͒N , where q͑t͒ is of the same order as the decay function of a single qubit.
The coupling between quantum-confined electron spins in semiconductor heterostructures and nuclear spins dominates the dephasing of spin qubits in III/V semiconductors. The interaction can be measured through the electron-spin dynamics or through its effect on the nuclear spin. Here, we discuss the resulting shift of the NMR frequency ͑the Knight shift͒ and measure its size as a function of the charge-carrier density for photoexcited charge carriers in a GaAs quantum well.
Electrons bound to shallow donors in GaAs have orbital energy levels analogous to those of the hydrogen atom. The polarization selection rules for optical transitions between the states analogous to the 1s and 2p states of hydrogen in a magnetic field are verified using Terahertz ͑THz͒ radiation from the University of California, Santa Barbara Free Electron Laser. A polarization-selective coherent manipulation of the quantum states is demonstrated and the relevance to quantum information processing schemes is discussed.
The anharmonic properties of the low-frequency E 2 phonon in ZnO were measured using impulsive stimulated Raman scattering. At 5 K, the frequency and lifetime are ͑2.9789± 0.0002͒ THz and ͑211± 7͒ ps. The unusually long lifetime and the high accuracy in the determination of the frequency hold promise for applications in metrology, quantum computation and materials characterization. The temperature dependence of the lifetime is determined by two-phonon upconversion decay contributions, which vanish at zero temperature. Results suggest that the lifetime is limited by isotopic disorder and that values in the nanosecond range may be achievable in isotopically pure samples.
High nuclear spin polarization is required for nuclear-spin based quantum computers and it also serves as a probe to investigate electron-nucleus cross-relaxation processes in solids. To increase the 29 Si polarization in bulk silicon, we have explored the dynamic-nuclear-polarization capabilities of optical pumping at a temperature of 4 K and a magnetic field of 7 T with a 29 Si-enriched sample. The 29 Si signals are observed with nuclear-magnetic-resonance spectroscopy. We have demonstrated 
With the help of the Green function technique and the equation of motion approach, the electronic transport through a parallel-coupled double quantum dot ͑DQD͒ is theoretically studied. Owing to the interdot coupling, the bonding and antibonding states of the artificial quantum-dot molecule may constitute an appropriate basis set. Based on this picture, the Fano interference in the conductance spectra of the DQD system is readily explained. The possibility of manipulating the Fano line shape in the tunneling spectra of the DQD system is explored by tuning the dot-lead coupling, the interdot coupling, the magnetic flux threading the ring connecting dots and leads, and the flux difference between two subrings. It has been found that by making use of various tunings, the direction of the asymmetric tail of Fano line shape may be flipped by external fields and the continuous conductance spectra may be magnetically manipulated with the line shape retained. More importantly, by adjusting the magnetic flux, the function of two molecular states can be exchanged, giving rise to a swap effect, which might play a role as a qubit in the quantum computation.
We propose a scheme for dynamically creating orbitally entangled electron-hole pairs through a timedependent variation of the electrical potential in a mesoscopic conductor. The time-dependent potential generates a superposition of electron-hole pairs in two different orbital regions of the conductor, a two-particle interferometer in the quantum Hall regime. The orbital entanglement is detected via violation of a Bell inequality, formulated in terms of zero-frequency current noise. Adiabatic cycling of the potential, in both the weak and strong amplitude limits, is considered.
We have demonstrated strong antiferromagnetic coupling between two three-junction flux qubits based on a shared Josephson junction, and therefore not limited by the small inductances of the qubit loops. The coupling sign and magnitude were measured by coupling the system to a high-quality superconducting tank circuit. Design modifications allowing to continuously tune the coupling strength and/or make the coupling ferromagnetic are discussed.
Coherent dynamics of localized spins in semiconductors is limited by spectral diffusion arising from dipolar fluctuation of lattice nuclear spins. Here we extend the semiclassical theory of spectral diffusion for nuclear spins I =1/2 to the high nuclear spins relevant to the III-V materials and show that applying successive qubit rotations at a rate approximately proportional to the nuclear spin quantum number squared ͑I 2 ͒ provides an efficient method for coherence enhancement. Hence robust coherent manipulation in the large spin environments characteristic of the III-V compounds is possible without resorting to nuclear spin polarization, provided that the pulses can be generated at intervals scaling as I -2 .
We investigate the measurements of two-state quantum systems ͑qubits͒ at finite temperatures using a resonant harmonic oscillator as a quantum probe. The reduced density matrix and oscillator correlators are calculated by a scheme combining numerical methods with an analytical perturbation theory. Correlators provide us information about the system impedance, which depends on the qubit state. We show in detail how this property can be exploited in the qubit measurement.
Strong electron and spin correlations are studied in parallel-coupled double quantum dots with interdot spin superexchange J. In the Kondo regime with degenerate dot energy levels, coherent transport occurs at zero temperature, where two entangled ͑bonding and antibonding͒ resonances are formed near the Fermi energy. When increasing J or the dot-lead parallel-coupling asymmetry ratio ⌫ 2 / ⌫ 1 , a swap between two entangled resonances occurs and the line shapes of the transmission are interchanged. The linear conductance shows a peak at the critical values. Such a peculiar effect with the virtue of many-body coherence may be useful in future quantum computing.
We present a systematic and realistic simulation for single and double phosphorous donors in a silicon-based quantum computer design. A two-valley equation is developed to describe the ground state of phosphorous donors in a strained silicon quantum well ͑QW͒, with the central cell effect treated by a model impurity potential. The valley splitting of the donor ground state as a function of QW width or donor position is calculated and a comparison with the valley splitting of the lowest QW states is presented. Oscillation of the valley splitting is observed as the QW width or donor position is varied at atomic scale. We find that the increase of quantum well confinement leads to shrinking charge distribution in all three dimensions. Using an unrestricted Hartree-Fock method with generalized valence bond ͑GVB͒ single-particle wave functions, we are able to solve the two-electron Schrödinger equation with quantum well confinement and realistic gate potentials. The lowest singlet and triplet energies and their charge distributions for a neighboring donor pair in the quantum computer ͑QC͒ architecture are obtained at different gate voltages. The effects of QW width, gate voltages, donor separation, and donor position shift are calculated and analyzed. The gate tunability and gate fidelity are defined and evaluated, for a typical QC design. Estimates are obtained for the duration of spinhalf-swap gate operation and the required accuracy in voltage control. A strong exchange oscillation is observed as both donors are shifted along ͓001͔ axis but with their separation unchanged. Applying a gate potential tends to suppress the oscillation. The exchange oscillation as a function of donor separation along ͓100͔ axis is found to be completely suppressed as the donor separation is decreased. The simulation presented in this paper is of importance to the practical design of an exchange-based silicon quantum computer.
Decoherence in quantum bit circuits is presently a major limitation to their use for quantum computing purposes. We present experiments, inspired from NMR, that characterize decoherence in a particular superconducting quantum bit circuit, the quantronium. We introduce a general framework for the analysis of decoherence, based on the spectral densities of the noise sources coupled to the qubit. Analysis of our measurements within this framework indicates a simple model for the noise sources acting on the qubit. We discuss various methods to fight decoherence.
The "half-quantum" vortices ͑͒ and quasiparticles ͑͒ in a two-dimensional p x + ip y superconductor obey the Ising-like fusion rules ϫ =1, ϫ = , and ϫ =1+. We explain how the physical fusion of vortex-antivortex pairs allows us to use these rules to read out the information encoded in the topologically protected space of degenerate ground states. We comment on the potential applicability of this fact to quantum computation.
We investigate the transitions induced by non-Gaussian external fluctuations on a small quantum system. The rates for the transitions between the energy states are calculated using the real-time Keldysh formalism for the density matrix evolution. We detail the effects of the third cumulant of current fluctuations coupled to a quantum system with a discrete level spectrum and propose a setup for detecting the frequency-dependent third cumulant through the transitions it induces. We especially discuss a scheme where the fluctuations are coupled to a Josephson flux qubit.
Ferromagnetic insulators that exhibit strong ferromagnetism at the atomic level are believed to be suitable for magnetic dielectric barriers in spintronic devices and solid-state qubits in quantum computing. Here a giant magnetic moment of 6.1 B / Co and a high Curie temperature T C of 790 K are observed in ͑4 at. %͒ Co-doped ZnO films, which is not carrier mediated, but co-exists with the dielectric state. Direct current reactive magnetron co-sputtering is used to grow Zn 0.96 Co 0.04 O dilute magnetic insulator on LiNbO 3 ͑104͒ substrates at considerably low growth temperature ͑ϳ200 °C͒, which is significant for complementary metal oxide semiconductor technology. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and x-ray-absorption spectroscopy reveal a solid solution of cobalt in ZnO, where Co is in the 2+ state substituting for Zn. A supercoupling mechanism in terms of bound magnetic polarons is proposed to discuss the ferromagnetism in the dielectric ground state of Co: ZnO, which would lead to different consideration for the origin of giant magnetic moment and hightemperature ferromagnetism in transition-metal doped oxides.
We propose a simple way to stabilize half-quantum vortices in superconducting strontium ruthenate, assuming the order parameter is of chiral p x + ip y symmetry, as is suggested by recent experiments. The method, first given by Salomaa and Volovik in the context of Helium-3, is very naturally suited for strontium ruthenate, which has a layered, quasi-two-dimensional, perovskite crystal structure. We propose possible experiments to detect their non-Abelian braiding statistics. These experiments are of potential importance for topological quantum computation.
The Pfaffian state, which may describe the quantized Hall plateau observed at Landau level filling fraction = 5 2 , can support topologically-protected qubits with extremely low error rates. Braiding operations also allow perfect implementation of certain unitary transformations of these qubits. However, in the case of the Pfaffian state, this set of unitary operations is not quite sufficient for universal quantum computation ͑i.e. is not dense in the unitary group͒. If some topologically unprotected operations are also used, then the Pfaffian state supports universal quantum computation, albeit with some operations which require error correction. On the other hand, if certain topology-changing operations can be implemented, then fully topologically-protected universal quantum computation is possible. In order to accomplish this, it is necessary to measure the interference between quasiparticle trajectories which encircle other moving trajectories in a time-dependent Hall droplet geometry ͓cond-mat/0512072͔.
To detect non-Abelian statistics in the = 12/ 5 quantum Hall state through interferometry, we apply an analysis similar to the ones proposed for the non-Abelian =5/2 quantum Hall state. The result is that the amplitude of the Aharonov-Bohm oscillation of this interference is dependent on the internal states of quasiholes, but, in contrast to the =5/2 quantum Hall state, independent of the number of quasiholes. However, if the quasiholes are in a superposition state, it is necessary for the interferometer to have certain additional features to obtain the coefficients.
By growing ultrathin and high quality CoFe 2 O 4 / MgAl 2 O 4 /Fe 3 O 4 epitaxial multilayers, we have demonstrated a room temperature spin filter junction, which could open the way for highly polarized spin injection, single-qubit spintronic measurements, magnetic field sensing, and other applications. In these devices the Fe 3 O 4 layer functions as a source of spin polarized electrons while the CoFe 2 O 4 / MgAl 2 O 4 double barrier functions as a spin filter. The current-voltage curves depend on the relative orientation of the magnetization of the Fe 3 O 4 and CoFe 2 O 4 layers and display a large magnetoresistive effect. The inferred net spin polarizations produced by the junctions typically exceeded 70%.
We present a theoretical analysis of a microwave spectroscopy experiment on a charge qubit defined by a P 2 + donor pair in silicon, for which we calculate Hamiltonian parameters using the effective-mass theory of shallow donors. The master equation of the driven system in a dissipative system is solved to predict experimental outcomes. We describe how to calculate physical parameters of the system from such experimental results, including the dephasing time, T 2 , and the ratio of the resonant Rabi frequency to the relaxation rate. Finally we calculate probability distributions for experimentally relevant system parameters for a particular fabrication regime.
We investigate the use of nanocrystal quantum dots as a quantum bus element for preparing various quantum resources for use in photonic quantum technologies. Using the Stark-tuning property of nanocrystal quantum dots as well as the biexciton transition, we demonstrate a photonic controlled-NOT ͑CNOT͒ interaction between two logical photonic qubits comprising two cavity field modes each. We find the CNOT interaction to be a robust generator of photonic Bell states, even with relatively large biexciton losses. These results are discussed in light of the current state of the art of both microcavity fabrication and recent advances in nanocrystal quantum dot technology. Overall, we find that such a scheme should be feasible in the near future with appropriate refinements to both nanocrystal fabrication technology and microcavity design. Such a gate could serve as an active element in photonic-based quantum technologies.
We theoretically investigate the macroscopic quantum dynamics of a junction with a superconductor ͑S͒ and a multiferroic material or a ferromagnetic insulator ͑FI͒. By deriving the effective action from a microscopic Hamiltonian, a -junction qubit ͑a S-FI-S superconducting quantum interference device ring͒ is proposed. In this qubit, a quantum two-level system is spontaneously generated and the effect of the quasiparticle dissipation is found to be very weak. These features make it possible to realize a quiet qubit with high coherency. We also investigate macroscopic quantum tunneling ͑MQT͒ in current-biased S-FI-S junctions and show that the influence of the quasiparticle dissipation on MQT is negligibly small.
We suggest a method of quantum information processing based on the precise placing of 31 P atoms in a quasi-one-dimensional 28 Si nanowire using isotope engineering and neutron-transmutation doping of the grown structures. In our structure, interqubit entanglement is based on the indirect interaction of 31 P nuclear spins with electrons localized in a nanowire. This allows one to control the coupling between distant qubits and between qubits separated by nonqubit neighboring nodes. The suggested method enables one to fabricate structures using present-day nanolithography. Numerical estimates show the feasibility of the proposed device and method of operation.
As a high-resistivity normal-metal barrier for superconducting Josephson junctions, metal-silicon alloys appear to be a good replacement for noble metals and have been applied to the development of quantum voltage standard circuits. We observed that the electrical properties of Nb-based junctions made with amorphous Nb x Si 1-x barriers were slowly evolving over time when stored at room temperature. After systematically investigating both junctions and thin films, we have concluded that the changes in junction electrical parameters are due to changes in the amorphous Nb x Si 1-x and not due to barrier-electrode interface effects. The resistivity of amorphous Nb x Si 1-x increases after heat treatment at temperatures as low as 80 °C when the Nb concentration is less than 33%, that of NbSi 2 . Furthermore, we found that annealed barriers behave similarly to barriers with the Nb concentration intentionally reduced to obtain smaller critical current and larger normal resistance with the same barrier thickness, as explained by our I c -R n relation developed based on the dirty-limit superconductor-normal-metal-superconductor Josephson junction theory. To explain these effects, we adopt and corroborate a microscopic picture based on alloy phase stability that was previously demonstrated by others. We also successfully demonstrate a method to stabilize junctions made with Nb x Si 1-x barriers by intentionally annealing wafers during fabrication.
We analyze several important issues for the single-and two-qubit operations in Si quantum computer architectures involving P donors close to a SiO 2 interface. For a single donor, we investigate the donor-bound electron manipulation ͑i.e., one-qubit operation͒ between the donor and the interface by electric and magnetic fields. We establish conditions to keep a donor-bound state at the interface in the absence of local surface gates and estimate the maximum planar density of donors allowed to avoid the formation of a two-dimensional electron gas at the interface. We also calculate the times involved in single electron shuttling between the donor and the interface. For a donor pair we find that, under certain conditions, the exchange coupling ͑i.e., two-qubit operation͒ between the respective electron pair at the interface may be of the same order of magnitude as the coupling in GaAs-based two-electron double quantum dots, where coherent spin manipulation and control have recently been demonstrated ͑for example, for donors ϳ10 nm below the interface and ϳ40 nm apart, J ϳ 10 -4 meV͒, opening the perspective for similar experiments to be performed in Si.
The dynamics of two 1 / 2-spin qubits under the influence of a quantum Heisenberg XY-type spin-bath is studied. After the Holstein-Primakoff transformation, numerical polynomial scheme is used to give the timeevolution calculation of the center qubits initially prepared in a product state or a Bell state. Then the concurrence of the two qubits, the z-component moment of either of the subsystem spins, and the fidelity of the subsystem are shown; they exhibit sensitive dependence on the anisotropic parameter, the temperature, the coupling strength, and the initial state. It is found that ͑i͒ the larger the anisotropic parameter ␥, the bigger the probability of maintaining the initial state of the two qubits; ͑ii͒ with increasing temperature T, the bath plays a stronger destroy effect on the dynamics of the subsystem, so does the interaction g 0 between the subsystem and the bath; and ͑iii͒ the time evolution of the subsystem is dependent on the initial state. The revival of the concurrence does not always mean the restoration of the state. Further, the dynamical properties of the subsystem should be judged by the combination of concurrence and fidelity.
Most of the experiments related to quantum information applications, involving rare-earth doped inorganic crystals, are performed on yttrium orthosilicate single crystals. The work presented here is motivated by the search of new compounds which can be used in the field of quantum computing and/or quantum storage. Relaxation times and hyperfine structure of the 3 H 4 ͑0͒ → 1 D 2 ͑0͒ transition in 1.4% Pr 3+ :La 2 ͑WO 4 ͒ 3 at 4 K have been measured by photon-echo and spectral-hole-burning techniques. The hyperfine splittings of the ground 3 H 4 ͑0͒ and the excited 1 D 2 ͑0͒ states are 14.9± 0.1 MHz, 24.6± 0.1 MHz and 5.0± 0.1 MHz, 7.3± 0.1 MHz, respectively. An inhomogeneous linewidth of 18.8± 0.1 GHz was measured. A homogeneous linewidth of 25.3± 2.0 kHz was obtained with or without an external magnetic field of about 14 mT. The fluorescence dynamics of the 1 D 2 level obtained by a direct excitation in the 3 H 4 → 1 D 2 transition gives a nonexponential decay which indicates energy-transfer processes. This decay can be accurately fitted by the Inokuti-Hirayama model ͓J. Chem. Phys. 43, 1978 ͑1965͔͒ with a radiative lifetime of 61± 1 s giving a minimal homogeneous linewidth of 2.6 kHz. The spectral-hole lifetime due to population redistribution within the ground hyperfine levels is 16± 2 s. The results obtained for the La 2 ͑WO 4 ͒ 3 compound make this crystal an interesting host for quantum applications.
We discuss fermionic zero modes in the two-dimensional chiral p-wave superconductors. We show quite generally that without fine tuning, in a macroscopic sample there is only one or zero of such Majorana-fermion modes depending only on whether the total vorticity of the order parameter is odd or even, respectively. As a special case of this, we find explicitly the one zero mode localized on a single odd-vorticity vortex and show that, in contrast, zero modes are absent for an even-vorticity vortex. One zero mode per odd vortex persists, within an exponential accuracy, for a collection of well-separated vortices, shifting to finite ±E energies as two odd vortices approach. These results should be useful for the demonstration of the non-Abelian statistics that such zero-mode vortices are expected to exhibit and for their possible application in quantum computation.
We consider qubits in a linear arrangement coupled to a bosonic field which acts as a quantum heat bath and causes decoherence. By taking the spatial separation of the qubits explicitly into account, the reduced qubit dynamics acquires an additional non-Markovian element. We investigate the exact time evolution of an entangled many-qubit W state, which for vanishing qubit separation remains robust under pure dephasing. For finite separation, by contrast, the dynamics is no longer decoherence-free. On the other hand, spatial noise correlations may prevent complete dephasing. While a standard Bloch-Redfield master equation fails to describe this behavior even qualitatively, we propose instead a widely applicable causal master equation. Here we employ it to identify and characterize decoherence-poor subspaces. Consequences for quantum error correction are discussed.
The results of a computer analysis of a simple two-dimensional quantum mechanical tunneling model are reported. These suggest that the spatial dependence of the superconducting energy gap observed by scanning tunneling spectroscopy ͑STS͒ studies of single crystals of the high T c superconductor Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+x is not necessarily caused by nanoscale inhomogeneity. Instead, the spatial dependence of the STS data could arise from the momentum ͑k͒ dependence of the energy gap, which is a defining feature of a d-wave superconductor. In other words, the superconducting properties of the CuO 2 layers could be spatially uniform. It is possible that this viewpoint could be exploited to obtain k-dependent information from STS studies.
We study planar clusters consisting of loops including a Josephson junction ͑-rings͒. Each -ring carries a persistent current and behaves as a classical orbital moment. The type of particular state associated with the orientation of orbital moments at the cluster depends on the interaction between these orbital moments and can be easily controlled, i.e., by a bias current or by other means. We show that these systems can be described by the two-dimensional Ising model with competing nearest-neighbor and diagonal interactions and investigate the phase diagram of this model. The characteristic features of the model are analyzed based on the exact solutions for small clusters such as a five-site square plaquette as well as on a mean-field-type approach for the infinite square lattice of Ising spins. The results are compared with spin patterns obtained by Monte Carlo simulations for the 100ϫ 100 square lattice and with experiment. We show that the -ring clusters may be used as a special type of superconducting memory elements. The obtained results may be verified in experiments and are applicable to adiabatic quantum computing where the states are switched adiabatically with the slow change of coupling constants.
Recent experiments by Yoshihara et al. ͓Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 167001 ͑2006͔͒ provided information on decoherence of the echo signal in Josephson-junction flux qubits at various bias conditions. These results were interpreted assuming a Gaussian model for the decoherence due to 1 / f noise. Here we revisit this problem on the basis of the exactly solvable spin-fluctuator model reproducing detailed properties of the 1 / f noise interacting with a qubit. We consider the time dependence of the echo signal and conclude that the results based on the Gaussian assumption need essential reconsideration.
We present a method for encoding and transporting qubits within a dimerized Heisenberg spin-1 2 chain. Logical qubits are localized at the domain walls that separate the two possible dimerized states. The domain walls can be moved to produce "flying spin qubits." The topological nature of these states makes them stable against local perturbations of the exchange profile. Pairs of domain walls can be used to generate Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs of entangled qubits. We discuss speed limitations within an exactly solvable three-spin model and describe a possible physical realization using quantum dot arrays.
We study macroscopic quantum tunneling ͑MQT͒ in c-axis twist Josephson junctions made of high-T c superconductors in order to clarify the influence of the anisotropic order parameter symmetry ͑OPS͒ on MQT. The dependence of the MQT rate on the twist angle ␥ about the c axis is calculated by using the functional integral and the bounce method. Due to the d-wave OPS, the ␥ dependence of standard deviation of the switching current distribution and the crossover temperature from thermal activation to MQT are found to be given by cos 2␥ and ͱ cos 2␥, respectively. We also show that a dissipative effect resulting from the nodal quasiparticle excitation on MQT is negligibly small, which is consistent with recent MQT experiments using Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+␦ intrinsic junctions. These results indicate that MQT in c-axis twist junctions becomes a useful experimental tool for testing the OPS of high-T c materials at low temperature, and suggest high potential of such junctions for qubit applications.
We consider the use of a junction for flux qubits to realize degenerate quantum levels without external magnetic field. On the basis of the Caldeira-Leggett model, we derive an effective spin-Boson model and study decoherence of this type of qubits. We estimate the dephasing time by using parameters from recent experiments of superconductor-insulator-ferromagnet-superconductor junctions and show that high critical current and large subgap resistance are required for the junction to realize a long coherent time.
The description of the tunneling of a macroscopic variable in the presence of a bath of localized spins is a subject of great fundamental and practical interest, and is relevant for many solid-state qubit designs. Most of the attention is usually given to the dynamics of the "central spin" ͑i.e., the qubit͒, while little is known about the spin bath itself. Here, we present a detailed study of the dynamics of the nuclear spin bath in the Mn 12 -ac single-molecule magnet, probed by NMR experiments down to very low temperatures ͑T Ӎ 20 mK͒. The results are critically analyzed in the framework of the Prokof'ev-Stamp theory of nuclear-spin-mediated quantum tunneling. We find that the longitudinal relaxation rate of the 55 Mn nuclei in Mn 12 -ac becomes roughly T independent below T Ӎ 0.8 K and can be strongly suppressed with a longitudinal magnetic field. This is consistent with the nuclear relaxation being caused by quantum tunneling of the molecular spin, and we attribute the tunneling fluctuations to the minority of fast-relaxing molecules present in the sample. The transverse nuclear relaxation is also T independent for T Ͻ 0.8 K, and can be explained qualitatively and quantitatively by the dipolar coupling between like nuclei in neighboring molecules. This intercluster nuclear spin diffusion mechanism is an essential ingredient for the global relaxation of the nuclear spin bath. We also show that the isotopic substitution of 1 H by 2 H leads to a slower nuclear longitudinal relaxation, consistent with the decreased tunneling probability of the molecular spin. Finally, we demonstrate that even at the lowest temperatures-where only T-independent quantum tunneling fluctuations are present-the nuclear spins remain in thermal equilibrium with the lattice phonons, and we investigate the time scale for their thermal equilibration. After a review of the theory of macroscopic spin tunneling in the presence of a spin bath, we argue that most of our experimental results are consistent with that theory, but the thermalization of the nuclear spins is not. This calls for an extension of the spin-bath theory to include the effect of spin-phonon couplings in the nuclear-spin-mediated tunneling process.
We propose a model for magnetic noise based on spin flips ͑not electron trapping͒ of paramagnetic dangling bonds at the amorphous-semiconductor/oxide interface. A wide distribution of spin-flip times is derived from the single-phonon cross-relaxation mechanism for a dangling bond interacting with the tunneling two-level systems of the amorphous interface. The temperature and frequency dependence is sensitive to three energy scales: The dangling-bond spin Zeeman energy ͑␦͒, as well as the minimum ͑E min ͒ and maximum ͑E max ͒ values for the energy splittings of the tunneling two-level systems. At the highest temperatures, k B T ӷ max ͑␦ , E max ͒, the noise spectral density is independent of temperature and has a 1 / f frequency dependence. At intermediate temperatures, k B T ӷ ␦ and E min Ӷ k B T Ӷ E max , the noise is proportional to a power law in temperature and possesses a 1 / f p spectral density, with p = 1.2-1.5. At the lowest temperatures, k B T Ӷ ␦, or k B T Ӷ E min , the magnetic noise is exponentially suppressed. We compare and fit our model parameters to a recent experiment probing spin coherence of antimony donors implanted in nuclear-spin-free silicon ͓T. Schenkel et al., Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 112101 ͑2006͔͒, and conclude that a dangling-bond area density of the order of 10 14 cm -2 is consistent with the data. This enables the prediction of single spin qubit coherence times as a function of the distance from the interface and the dangling-bond area density in a real device structure. We apply our theory to calculations of magnetic flux noise affecting superconducting quantum interference devices ͑SQUIDs͒ due to their Si/ SiO 2 substrate. Our explicit estimates of flux noise in SQUIDs lead to a noise spectral density of the order of 10 -12 ⌽ 0 2 ͑Hz͒ -1 at f = 1 Hz. This value might explain the origin of flux noise in some SQUIDs. Finally, we consider the suppression of these effects using surface passivation with hydrogen, and the residual nuclear-spin noise resulting from a perfect silicon-hydride surface.
We investigate two types of genuine three-qubit entanglement, known as the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ͑GHZ͒ and W states, in a macroscopic quantum system. Superconducting flux qubits are theoretically considered in order to generate such states. A phase coupling is proposed to offer enough strength of interactions between qubits. While an excited state can be the W state, the GHZ state is formed at the ground state of the three flux qubits. The GHZ and W states are shown to be robust against external flux fluctuations for feasible experimental realizations.
The subgigahertz spectral bandwidth of the lowest energy 1.5 m Er 3+ 4 I 15/2 → 4 I 13/2 optical transition in Er 3+ :Y 2 SiO 5 has been increased to ϳ22 GHz by intentionally introducing compositional disorder through codoping with Eu 3+ impurity ions. This illustrates a general bandwidth control technique for spectral hole burning device applications including spatial-spectral holography and quantum computing. Coherence measurements by stimulated photon echoes demonstrated that the increased disorder does not perturb the dynamical properties of the Er 3+ transition and, thus, gives the desired bandwidth enhancement without penalty in other properties. The echo measurements and model analysis also show that phonon-driven spin flips of Er 3+ ions in the ground state are responsible for the spectral diffusion that was observed for the optical transition. These results collectively give a better understanding of both the nature of disorder and of the ion-ion interactions in doped materials, and they also enable the high bandwidths required for signal processing and memory applications at 1.5 m based on spectral hole burning.
The nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond is a promising candidate for realizing the spin qubits concept in quantum information. Even though this defect has been known for a long time, its electronic structure and other properties have not yet been explored in detail. We study the properties of the nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond through density functional theory within the local spin density approximation by using supercell calculations. While this theory is strictly applicable for ground state properties, we are able to give an estimate for the energy sequence of the excited states of this defect. We also calculate the hyperfine tensors in the ground state. The results clearly show that ͑i͒ the spin density and the appropriate hyperfine constants are spread along a plane and unevenly distributed around the core of the defect and ͑ii͒ the measurable hyperfine constants can be found within about 7 Å from the vacancy site. These results have important implications on the decoherence of the electron spin which is crucial in realizing the spin qubits in diamond.
In spectroscopy, it is conventional to treat pulses much stronger than the linewidth as delta functions. In NMR, this assumption leads to the prediction that pulses do not refocus the dipolar coupling. However, NMR spin echo measurements in dipolar solids defy these conventional expectations when more than one pulse is used. Observed effects include a long tail in the CPMG echo train for short delays between pulses, an even-odd asymmetry in the echo amplitudes for long delays, an unusual fingerprint pattern for intermediate delays, and a strong sensitivity to -pulse phase. Experiments that set limits on possible extrinsic causes for the phenomena are reported. We find that the action of the system's internal Hamiltonian during any real pulse is sufficient to cause the effects. Exact numerical calculations, combined with average Hamiltonian theory, identify terms that are sensitive to parameters such as pulse phase, dipolar coupling, and system size. Visualization of the entire density matrix shows a unique flow of quantum coherence from nonobservable to observable channels when applying repeated pulses.
We present experimental studies of static and dynamic properties of 0, , and 0-superconductor-insulatorferromagnet-superconductor ͑SIFS͒ Josephson junctions of small and intermediate length. In the underdamped limit, these junctions exhibit a rich dynamical behavior such as resonant steps on the current-voltage characteristics. Varying the experimental conditions, zero-field steps, Fiske steps, and Shapiro steps are observed with a high resolution. A strong signature of the 0-Josephson junction is demonstrated by measuring the critical current as a function of two components ͑B x and B y ͒ of an in-plane magnetic field. The experimental observation of a half-integer zero-field step in 0-SIFS junctions is presented.
An experimental study on the nature of spin-dependent excess charge-carrier transitions at the interface between ͑111͒-oriented phosphorous-doped ͓͑P͔Ϸ10 15 cm -3 ͒ crystalline silicon and silicon dioxide at high magnetic field ͑B 0 Ϸ 8.5 T͒ is presented. Electrically detected magnetic-resonance ͑EDMR͒ spectra of the hyperfine split 31 P donor-electron transitions and paramagnetic interface defects were conducted at temperatures in the range of 3 K Յ T Յ 12 K. The results at these previously unattained ͑for EDMR͒ magnetic-field strengths reveal the dominance of spin-dependent processes that differ from the previously well investigated recombination between the 31 P donor and the P b state, which dominates at low magnetic fields. While magnetic resonant current responses due to 31 P and P b states are still present, they do not correlate and only the P b contribution can be associated with an interface process due to spin-dependent tunneling between energetically and physically adjacent P b states. This work provides an experimental demonstration of spin-dependent tunneling between physically adjacent and identical electronic states as proposed by Kane ͓Nature ͑London͒ 393, 133 ͑1998͔͒ for readout of donor qubits.
Cr 5+ -doped K 3 NbO 8 , considered to be useful as an electron spin qubit, has been investigated by pulsed X band ͑ϳ9.7 GHz͒ and 240 GHz electron paramagnetic resonance and electron nuclear double resonance ͑ENDOR͒. Comparison of the low temperature electronic spin-lattice relaxation rate 1 / T 1 at 9.7 and 240 GHz shows that it is 250 times faster at 240 GHz than at X band. On the other hand, spin-spin relaxation rate 1 / T 2 appears largely frequency independent and is very likely related to the superhyperfine ͑SHF͒ coupling of the Cr 5+ electron with the surrounding potassium and niobium nuclei. This coupling was investigated by hyperfine sublevel correlation spectroscopy at 9.7 GHz and pulsed Mims ENDOR at 240 GHz. The use of high frequency and field enabled us to unambiguously measure the hyperfine and quadrupole couplings of the 39 K in spite of its small magnetic moment. We find that the largest 39 K SHF coupling is positive, with 0.522 and 0.20 MHz as its isotropic and dipolar parts, respectively. 93  Nb ENDOR was dominantly due to its quadrupolar interaction with a coupling of about 0.8 MHz and a SHF coupling of about 0.08 MHz. The significance of these data to spin qubit studies is pointed out.
We report on the experimental demonstration of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in a Tm 3+ : YAG crystal. Tm 3+ : YAG is a promising material for use in quantum information processing applications, but as yet there are few experimental investigations of coherent Raman processes in this material. We investigate the effect of inhomogeneous broadening and Rabi frequency on the transfer efficiency and the width of the two-photon spectrum. Simulations of the complete Tm 3+ : YAG system are presented along with the corresponding experimental results.
We investigate the multiconfiguration time-dependent Hartree-Fock approach and show that it relaxes computational requirements and makes accurate modeling of few-electron dynamics in nanodevices computationally feasible. The method is applied to the optimization of the manipulation of a two-electron spin-based coded qubit in a double quantum dot and is successfully tested against direct integration of the multidimensional time-dependent Schrödinger equation. Our investigation presents a basis for the ab initio optimization of few-qubit operations, which is prohibitively difficult to do with other numerical methods.
The problem considered in our paper was previously studied, using a detailed tight-binding analysis. 1 However, the path integral formalism we present, which connects the suppression of tunneling to interference between tunneling paths, is new to our manuscript. We regret not having been aware of this reference.
Topological insulators supporting non-Abelian anyonic excitations are in the center of attention as candidates for topological quantum computation. In this paper, we analyze the ground-state properties of disordered non-Abelian anyonic chains. The resemblance of fusion rules of non-Abelian anyons and real-space decimation strongly suggests that disordered chains of such anyons generically exhibit infinite-randomness phases. Concentrating on the disordered golden chain model with nearest-neighbor coupling, we show that Fibonacci anyons with the fusion rule =1 exhibit two infinite-randomness phases: a random-singlet phase when all bonds prefer the trivial fusion channel and a mixed phase which occurs whenever a finite density of bonds prefers the fusion channel. Real-space renormalization-group ͑RG͒ analysis shows that the random-singlet fixed point is unstable to the mixed fixed point. By analyzing the entanglement entropy of the mixed phase, we find its effective central charge and find that it increases along the RG flow from the random-singlet point, thus ruling out a c theorem for the effective central charge.
In a quantum nanometric lateral quantum dot ͑QD͒ with a ⌸ geometry the spin properties of a single electron injected in the Coulomb blockade regime are modified by the spin-orbit interaction, resulting in a transformation of the qubit state carried by the spin. The ⌸-shaped QD acts as a one-qubit spintronic quantum gate whose properties can be varied by tuning the Rashba parameter of the spin-orbit interaction, by changing the relative position of the junctions, as well as by modifying the length of the transverse legs. We discuss how a large class of transformations can be attained with already one ⌸ nanojunction or a few ⌸ nanojunctions in series.
Within the lowest-order Born approximation, we calculate the exact dynamics of a qubit in the presence of 1 / f noise without Markov approximation. We show that the non-Markovian qubit time-evolution exhibits asymmetries and beatings that can be observed experimentally and cannot be explained within a Markovian theory. The present theory for 1 / f noise is relevant for both spin-and superconducting qubit realizations in solid-state devices, where 1 / f noise is ubiquitous.
We studied the hyperfine structure and hyperfine coherent properties of the 3 H 4 ͑0͒ → 1 D 2 ͑0͒ transition of Pr 3+ ions in a tungstate single crystal La 2 ͑WO 4 ͒ 3 by hole-burning and photon-echo techniques. This work is motivated by the search of an efficient three level ⌳ system in this new compound with which we could build up a quantum memory. By nonconventional hole-burning experiments, the ordering of the hyperfine splittings in the 3 H 4 ͑0͒ ground state and in the 1 D 2 ͑0͒ excited state is obtained. The hyperfine splittings are thus ordered: 24.6 and 14.9 MHz for the 3 H 4 ͑0͒ level and 5.0 and 7.3 MHz for the 1 D 2 ͑0͒ level. The relative and absolute transition strengths of individual hyperfine transitions are determined by comparing absorption strengths and by measuring the Rabi flopping frequency as the transition is coherently driven. Free induction and Raman echo decays give inhomogeneous and homogeneous hyperfine linewidths of 57Ϯ 2 and 1.25Ϯ 0.1 kHz, respectively.
We propose to combine the advantages of graphene, such as easy tunability and long coherence times, with Josephson physics to manufacture qubits. If these qubits are built around a 0 and junction, they can be controlled by an external flux. Alternatively, a d-wave Josephson junction can itself be tuned via a gate voltage to create superpositions between macroscopically degenerate states. We show that ferromagnets are not required for realizing junction in graphene, thus considerably simplifying its physical implementation. We demonstrate how one qubit gates, such as arbitrary phase rotations and the exchange gate, can be implemented.
Coherent spin dynamics of impurity Yb 3+ ions in the CaWO 4 single crystal has been studied using X-and W-band EPR. Rabi oscillations of the sample magnetization with damping times comparable to their period, driven by pulses of the microwave field with duration up to 5 s, were observed. The largest value of the single-qubit figure of merit ͑ϳ6400͒ is obtained for the high-field component in the 171 Yb X-band EPR spectrum. The spin-lattice relaxation time of the Yb 3+ ions shortens with the increasing resonance frequency while the phase memory time, in contrast, grows noticeably. Variations of the phase memory times are interpreted in terms of spectral and instantaneous diffusions. The increase of the coherence time at the W band can be used for the application of rare-earth ions as qubits in quantum computing as it has been proposed recently.
The complexity of representation of operators in quantum mechanics can be characterized by the operator space entanglement entropy ͑OSEE͒. We show that in the homogeneous Heisenberg XY spin 1/2 chains the OSEE for initial local operators grows at most logarithmically with time. The prefactor in front of the logarithm generally depends only on the number of stationary points of the quasiparticle dispersion relation and for the XY model changes from 1/3 to 2/3 exactly at the point of quantum phase transition to long-range magnetic correlations in the nonequilibrium steady state. In addition, we show that the presence of a small disorder triggers a saturation of the OSEE.
We present a pseudospin model which should be experimentally accessible using solid-state devices and, being a variation on the compass model, adds to the toolbox for the protection of qubits in the area of quantum information. Using Monte Carlo methods, we find for both classical and quantum spins in two and three dimensions Ising-type Néel ordering of energy fluctuations at finite temperatures without magnetic order. We also readdress the controversy concerning the stability of the ordered state in the presence of quenched impurities and present numerical results which are at clear variance with earlier claims in the literature.
It is generally believed that in spatial dimension d Ͼ 1, the leading contribution to the entanglement entropy S =-tr A log A scales as the area of the boundary of subsystem A. The coefficient of this "area law" is nonuniversal. However, in the neighborhood of a quantum critical point S is believed to possess subleading universal corrections. In the present work, we study the entanglement entropy in the quantum O͑N͒ model in 1 Ͻ d Ͻ 3. We use an expansion in ⑀ =3-d to evaluate ͑i͒ the universal geometric correction to S for an infinite cylinder divided along a circular boundary; ͑ii͒ the universal correction to S due to a finite correlation length. Both corrections are different at the Wilson-Fisher and Gaussian fixed points, and the ⑀ → 0 limit of the Wilson-Fisher fixed point is distinct from the Gaussian fixed point. In addition, we compute the correlation length correction to the Renyi entropy S n = 1 1-n log tr A n in ⑀ and large-N expansions. For N → ϱ, this correction generally scales as N 2 rather than the naively expected N. Moreover, the Renyi entropy has a phase transition as a function of n for d close to 3.
Recently, studies have demonstrated remarkable improvements in absorption spectroscopy of shallow impurities by using highly enriched 28 Si to eliminate the inhomogeneous isotope broadening inherent in natural Si. Here, we show that similar dramatic improvements in the linewidths of electronic transitions can be achieved with the two chalcogens sulfur and selenium in 28 Si. The S + and Se + 1s͑T 2 ͒ transitions exhibit a full width at half maximum of only 0.008 cm -1 for the ⌫ 7 component-more than one order of magnitude sharper than in natural silicon and a factor of 1.5 narrower than the width of the sharpest shallow impurity transition in 28  Si. Hence they are the narrowest lines ever seen for impurity states in silicon. Fine structure is revealed in the absorption spectrum of the Se double donor and the 77 Se + 1s͑T 2 ͒ ⌫ 7 transition shows a splitting due to a hyperfine coupling with the I =1/ 2 nuclear spin. Under an applied magnetic field, the electronic, and nuclear spins can be individually determined with potential applications in quantum computing.
The dependence of the g factors of semiconductor donors on applied electric and magnetic fields is of immense importance in spin-based quantum computation and in semiconductor spintronics. The donor g-factor Stark shift is sensitive to the orientation of the electric and magnetic fields and is strongly influenced by the band-structure and spin-orbit interactions of the host. Using a multimillion atom tight-binding framework, the spin-orbit Stark parameters are computed for donors in multivalley semiconductors, silicon, and germanium. Comparison with limited experimental data shows good agreement for a donor in silicon. Results for gateinduced transition from three-dimensional to two-dimensional wave-function confinement show that the corresponding g-factor shift in Si is experimentally observable, and at modest B field, O͑1 T͒ can exceed the Stark shift of the hyperfine interaction.
We investigate classical thermal activation ͑TA͒ and macroscopic quantum tunneling ͑MQT͒ for a YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7-␦ ͑YBCO͒ Josephson junction coupled to an LC circuit theoretically. Due to the coupling between the junction and the LC circuit, the macroscopic phase dynamics can be described as the escape process of a fictitious particle with an anisotropic mass moving in a two-dimensional potential. We analytically calculate the escape rate including both the TA and MQT regime by taking into account the peculiar dynamical nature of the system. In addtion to large suppression of the MQT rate at zero temperature, we study details of the temperature dependence of the escape rate across a crossover region. These results are in an excellent agreement with recent experimental data for the MQT and TA rate in a YBCO biepitaxial Josephson junction. Therefore the coupling to the LC circuit is essential in understanding the macroscopic quantum dynamics and the qubit operation based on the YBCO biepitaxial Josephson junctions.
We study how the surface states in the strong topological insulator Bi 2 Se 3 are influenced by finite size effects and compare our results with those recently obtained for two-dimensional topological insulator HgTe. We demonstrate two important distinctions: ͑i͒ contrary to HgTe, the surface states in Bi 2 Se 3 display a remarkable robustness towards decreasing the width L down to a few nm thus ensuring that the topological surface states remain intact and ͑ii͒ the gapping due to the hybridization of the surface states features an oscillating exponential decay as a function of L in Bi 2 Se 3 in sharp contrast to HgTe. Our findings suggest that Bi 2 Se 3 is suitable for nanoscale applications in quantum computing or spintronics. Also, we propose a way to experimentally detect both of the predicted effects.
Based on a pure solid-state device consisting of two superconducting LC circuits coupled to a superconducting flux qubit, we propose in this paper that the maximally entangled coherent states of the two LC modes can be generated for arbitrary coherent states through flux qubit controls.
The quantum Hall state at the filling fraction =5/ 2 is the leading candidate to be a physical system supporting excitations with non-Abelian braid statistics. While a direct experimental evidence for the latter is still absent, recent experiments by Radu et al.
We determine the charge-and spin-density distributions of nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond for both the ground and excited states by ab initio supercell calculations yielding very good agreement with the experiment. We correctly determine the polarization of 15 N nuclear spin in the level anticrossing ͑LAC͒ mechanism. We show that LAC together with the accurate ab initio data can be used to identify the individual 13 C nuclei around the defect that can also reveal the dominant component of the precession vector responsible for the decoherence of the addressed nuclear-spin qubit.
We calculate the tunneling current through long-line junctions of a = 5 2 quantum Hall liquid and ͑i͒ another = 5 2 liquid, ͑ii͒ an integer quantum Hall liquid, and ͑iii͒ a quantum wire. Momentum-resolved tunneling provides information about the number, propagation directions, and other features of the edge modes and thus helps distinguish several competing models of the 5/2 state. We investigate transport properties of two proposed Abelian states: K = 8 and 331 state, and four possible non-Abelian states: Pfaffian, edge-reconstructed Pfaffian, and two versions of the anti-Pfaffian state. We also show that the nonequilibrated anti-Pfaffian state has a different resistance from other proposed states in the bar geometry.
We consider a symmetric 0-Josephson junction of length L, which classically can be in one of two degenerate ground states ↑ or ↓, corresponding to supercurrents circulating clockwise or counterclockwise around the 0-boundary. When the length L of the junction becomes smaller than the Josephson penetration depth J , the system can switch from one state to the other due to thermal fluctuations or quantum tunneling to the neighboring well. We map this problem to the dynamics of a single particle in a periodic double-well potential and estimate parameters for which macroscopic quantum coherence may be observed experimentally. We conclude that this system is not very promising to build a qubit because ͑a͒ it requires very low temperatures to reach the quantum regime, ͑b͒ its tiny flux is hard to read out, and ͑c͒ it is very sensitive to the asymmetries between the 0 and parts of the junction.
We determine the polarization of the bulk 13 C nuclear-spin system in diamond produced by interaction with optically oriented nitrogen vacancy ͑NV͒ defect centers. 
We report on dynamics of optically induced nuclear spin polarization in individual InP/GaInP quantum dots at T = 4.2 K. Dots with different charge states arising from residual doping in a nominally undoped sample have been studied. In the same sample, we find strong dot-to-dot variation in the nuclear spin decay times in the dark from ϳ85 to ϳ6000 s. The longest decay times measured are comparable to those previously measured in bulk InP and correspond to almost complete suppression of nuclear spin diffusion out of the dot. In the negatively charged dots, the spin decay times exceed 300 s ͑with the slowest decay of ϳ6000 s͒, about 10 5 times longer than those reported previously in electron charged dots in gated structures. We discuss possible mechanisms responsible for suppression of nuclear spin diffusion, including inhomogeneous quadrupolar shifts and stabilizing effect of the hyperfine interaction with the electron confined in the dot.
Endohedral fullerenes encapsulating a spin-active atom or ion within a carbon cage offer a route to selfassembled arrays such as spin chains. In the case of metallofullerenes the charge transfer between the atom and the fullerene cage has been thought to limit the electron spin phase coherence time ͑T 2 ͒ to the order of a few microseconds. We study electron spin relaxation in several species of metallofullerene as a function of temperature and solvent environment, yielding a maximum T 2 in deuterated o-terphenyl greater than 200 s for Y, Sc, and La@C 82 . The mechanisms governing relaxation ͑T 1 , T 2 ͒ arise from metal-cage vibrational modes, spin-orbit coupling and the nuclear spin environment. The T 2 times are over 2 orders of magnitude longer than previously reported and consequently make metallofullerenes of interest in areas such as spin labeling, spintronics, and quantum computing.
We report on the crystal structure of the quantum magnet ͑CuCl͒LaNb 2 O 7 that was controversially described with respect to its structural organization and magnetic behavior. Using high-resolution synchrotron powder x-ray diffraction, electron diffraction, transmission electron microscopy, and band-structure calculations, we solve the room-temperature structure of this compound ͓␣-͑CuCl͒LaNb 2 O 7 ͔ and find two high-temperature polymorphs. The ␥-͑CuCl͒LaNb 2 O 7 phase, stable above 640 K, is tetragonal with a sub = 3.889 Å, c sub = 11.738 Å, and the space group P4 / mmm. In the ␥-͑CuCl͒LaNb 2 O 7 structure, the Cu and Cl atoms are randomly displaced from the special positions along the ͕100͖ directions. The ␤ phase ͑a sub ϫ 2a sub ϫ c sub , space group Pbmm͒ and the ␣ phase ͑2a sub ϫ 2a sub ϫ c sub , space group Pbam͒ are stable between 640 K and 500 K and below 500 K, respectively. The structural changes at 500 and 640 K are identified as order-disorder phase transitions. The displacement of the Cl atoms is frozen upon the ␥ → ␤ transformation while a cooperative tilting of the NbO 6 octahedra in the ␣ phase further eliminates the disorder of the Cu atoms. The low-temperature ␣-͑CuCl͒LaNb 2 O 7 structure thus combines the two types of the atomic displacements that interfere due to the bonding between the Cu atoms and the apical oxygens of the NbO 6 octahedra. The precise structural information resolves the controversy between the previous computation-based models and provides the long-sought input for understanding ͑CuCl͒LaNb 2 O 7 and related compounds with unusual magnetic properties.
We develop a quantum Monte Carlo procedure to compute the Renyi mutual information of an interacting quantum many-body system at nonzero temperature. Performing simulations on a spin-1 2 XXZ model, we observe that for a subregion of fixed size embedded in a system of size L, the mutual information converges at large L to a limiting function which displays nonmonotonic temperature behavior corresponding to the onset of correlations. For a region of size L / 2 embedded in a system of size L, the mutual information divided by L converges to a limiting function of temperature, with apparently nontrivial corrections near critical points.
We study the phonon-induced relaxation dynamics in the heterometallic Cr 7 Ni ring. By assuming that spin-phonon coupling occurs through the modulation of local crystal fields, we investigate the decay of time correlations of molecular observables, such as fluctuations of the cluster magnetization. Single-crystal 1 H nuclear magnetic resonance measurements have been performed for two orthogonal orientations of the applied magnetic field. The nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1 / T 1 probes fluctuations of specific molecular observables, thus allowing to determine the magnetoelastic coupling strength and to calculate the magnetization relaxation time as well as phonon-induced level lifetimes. The knowledge of these time scales is crucial to control the spin dynamics of the magnetic cluster in view of the potential technological applications.
We have developed a comprehensive theory of Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interferometry in a strongly driven multilevel superconducting flux qubit interacting with the environment bath. It is found that not only the dephasing but also the intrawell relaxation make important contribution to the interference fringes. We propose that Fourier-transform-based phase tomography can be used to determine the intrawell relaxation rate as well as the type of the low-frequency noise, besides dephasing rate. The quantitative agreement between our theory and the experimental results indicates that Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interferometry provides a useful tool to analyze the noise source of solid-state qubits.
We proposed a different method to measure the energy spectrum of a superconducting flux qubit. Different from the conventional frequency spectroscopy, a linear triangle pulse was used to drive the qubit through the anticrossing and to generate Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interference patterns, from which the information of the energy spectrum can be extracted. This method facilitates the spectroscopy in regimes of very large energies. Moreover, without installing microwaves lines one can simplify the experimental setup and reduce the unwanted effects of noise. The idea can be applied to other quantum systems as well, opening the possibility of calibrating and manipulating qubits with linear pulses.
We have extracted information about real time dynamics of 4 He systems from noisy imaginary-time correlation functions f͑͒ computed via quantum Monte Carlo ͑QMC͒: production and falsification of model spectral functions s͑͒ are obtained via a survival-to-compatibility with f͑͒ evolutionary process, based on genetic algorithms. Statistical uncertainty in f͑͒ is promoted to be an asset via a sampling of equivalent f͑͒ within the noise, which give rise to independent evolutionary processes. In the case of pure superfluid 4 He we have recovered from exact QMC simulations sharp quasiparticle excitations with spectral functions displaying also the multiphonon branch. As further applications, we have studied the impuriton branch of one 3 He atom in liquid 4 He and the vacancy-wave excitations in hcp solid 4 He finding an unexpected rotonlike feature.
While electron spins in silicon heterostructures make attractive qubits, little is known about the coherence of electrons at the Si/ SiO 2 interface. We report spin relaxation ͑T 1 ͒ and coherence ͑T 2 ͒ times for mobile electrons and natural quantum dots at a 28 Si / SiO 2 interface. Mobile electrons have short T 1 and T 2 of 0.3 s at 5 K. In line with predictions, confining electrons and cooling increases T 1 to 0.8 ms at 350 mK. In contrast, T 2 for quantum dots is around 10 s at 350 mK, increasing to 30 s when the dot density is reduced by a factor of two. The quantum dot T 2 is shorter than T 1 , indicating that T 2 is not controlled by T 1 at 350 mK but is instead limited by an extrinsic mechanism. The evidence suggests that this extrinsic mechanism is an exchange interaction between electrons in neighboring dots.
The two-dimensional electron gas formed between SrTiO 3 and LaAlO 3 exhibits a variety of interesting physical properties which make it an appealing material for use in future spintronics and/or quantumcomputing devices. For this kind of applications electrons have to retain their phase memory for sufficiently long times or length. Using a mesoscopic size device we were able to extract the phase coherence length, L , and its temperature variation. We find the dephasing rate to have a power-law dependence on temperature. The power depends on the temperature range studied and sheet resistance as expected from dephasing due to strong electron-electron interactions.
Interface disorder and its effect on valley degeneracy in the conduction band present an important theoretical challenge for operating spin qubits in silicon. Here, we demonstrate and investigate a counterintuitive effect occurring at Si/ SiO 2 interfaces. By applying tight-binding methods, we show that intrinsic interface states can hybridize with conventional valley states to produce an anomalously large ground-state energy gap. Such hybridization effects have not previously been explored in detail for valley splitting. We find that the splitting can be enhanced by disorder in the chemical bonds at the interface, in agreement with recent experiments.
We study the properties of the subgap states in p-wave superfluids, which occur at energies below the bulk gap and are localized inside the cores of vortices. We argue that their presence affects the topological protection of the zero modes. Transitions between the subgap states, including the zero modes and at energies much smaller than the gap, can alter the quantum states of the zero modes. Consequently, qubits defined uniquely in terms of the zero modes do not remain coherent, while compound qubits involving the zero modes and the parity of the occupation number of the subgap states on each vortex are still well defined. In neutral superfluids, it may be difficult to measure the parity of the subgap states. We propose to avoid this difficulty by working in the regime of small chemical potential μ, near the transition to a strongly paired phase, where the number of subgap states is reduced. We develop the theory to describe this regime of strong pairing interactions and we show how the subgap states are ultimately absorbed into the bulk gap. Since the bulk gap also vanishes as μ → 0 there is an optimum value μ c which maximizes the combined gap. We propose cold atomic gases as candidate systems where the regime of strong interactions can be explored, and explicitly evaluate μ c in a Feshbach resonant 40 K gas. In particular, the parameter c 2 parametrizing the strength of the resonance in such gases sets the characteristic size of vortices and the energy scale of the subgap states.
The structure and vibrational spectrum of the novel endohedral fullerene Y 2 C 2 @C 92 was studied by Raman spectroscopy, with particular emphasis on the rotational transitions of the diatomic C 2 unit in the low-energy Raman spectrum. We report evidence for tunneling of this unit through the C 2 rotation plane and observe anomalous narrowing in a hindered rotational mode. We also report complementary density functional theory calculations that support our conclusions and discuss potential applications to quantum computing and nonvolatile memory devices.
We present the observation of Landau-Zener-Stückelberg (LZS) interference of the dressed states arising from an artificial atom, a superconducting phase qubit, interacting with a microwave field. The dependence of LZS interference fringes on various external parameters and the initial state of the qubit agrees quantitatively very well with the theoretical prediction. Such LZS interferometry between the dressed states enables us to control the quantum states of a tetrapartite solid-state system with ease, demonstrating the feasibility of implementing efficient multipartite quantum logic gates with this unique approach.
We study the applicability of the time-optimal bang-bang control designed for spin 1 2 [Boscain and Mason,  J. Math. Phys. 47, 062101 (2006)] to the rotation of the electron spin of a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. The spin of the NV center is a three-level system, with two levels forming a relevant qubit subspace where the time-varying magnetic control field performs rotation, and the third level being idle. We find that the bang-bang control protocol decreases the rotation time by 20%-25% in comparison with the traditional oscillating sinusoidal driving. We also find that for most values of the bias field, the leakage to the idle level is very small, so that the NV center is a suitable testbed for experimental study of the time-optimal protocols. For some special values of the bias field, however, the unwanted leakage is greatly increased. We demonstrate that this is caused by the resonance with higher-order Fourier harmonics of the bang-bang driving field.
Based on first-principles calculations, we predict a half-metallic surface state in layered bulk insulator NaCoO 2 , with tunable surface hole concentration. The half-metallic surface has a single Fermi surface with a helical spin texture, similar to the surface state of topological insulators, but with the key difference of time-reversal symmetry breaking in the present case. We propose the realization of topological superconductivity and Majorana fermions when the half-metallic surface states are in proximity contact with a conventional superconductor.
We investigate quasiparticle tunneling in a Cooper-pair box which is embedded in a superconducting ring to allow control of the total phase difference across the island. The phase affects the transition rate between different electron number parity states of the island, which can be observed in experiment by established means. The phase dependence also leads to what is known as the cos ϕ term in the tunneling characteristics of classical Josephson junctions. This effect has remained controversial for decades; the proposed scheme opens an independent way to probe it.
The end members, Bi and Bi 2 Te 3 , of the infinitely adaptive (Bi 2 ) m (Bi 2 Te 3 ) n series of compounds have not only been revealed to be topological insulators under the appropriate conditions, but have also been shown to be superconductors under pressure, suggesting the potential for bulk superconductor-topological-insulator interfaces and associated quantum computing applications. Herein, we report the pressure-dependent evolution of the structure and electrical transport of the nominal semimetal Bi 4 Te 3 , a member of the (Bi 2 ) m (Bi 2 Te 3 ) n series. Under pressure, Bi 4 Te 3 undergoes several structural phase transformations, ultimately yielding a metallic body-centered-cubic structure exhibiting superconductivity with a maximum T c = 8.4 K at 16.2 GPa. The occurrence of structure-dependent superconductivity in Bi 4 Te 3 is remarkably similar to the end members of the (Bi 2 ) m (Bi 2 Te 3 ) n series, intimating a convergence to high-pressure universal behavior that may expose the subtle variations that lead to the topological insulating and superconducting states in these systems.
We propose a circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED) realization of a protocol to generate a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state for N superconducting transmon qubits homogeneously coupled to a superconducting transmission line resonator in the dispersive limit. We derive an effective Hamiltonian with pairwise qubit exchange interactions of the XY type, g(XX + Y Y ), that can be globally controlled. Starting from a separable initial state, these interactions allow us to generate a multi-qubit GHZ state within a time t GHZ ∼ g-1 . We discuss how to probe the nonlocal nature and the genuine N -partite entanglement of the generated state. Finally, we investigate the stability of the proposed scheme to inhomogeneities in the physical parameters.
We study the variation in the Landé g factor of electron spins induced by both anisotropic gate potentials and magnetic fields in InAs quantum dots for possible implementation toward solid-state quantum computing. In this paper, we present analytical expressions and numerical simulations of the variation in the Landé g factor for both isotropic and anisotropic quantum dots. Using both analytical techniques and numerical simulations, we show that the Rashba spin-orbit coupling has a major contribution in the variation of the g factor with electric fields before the regime, where level crossing or anticrossing occurs. In particular, the electric-field tunability is shown to cover a wide range of g factor through strong Rashba spin-orbit interaction. Another major result of this paper is that the anisotropic gate potential gives quenching effect in the orbital angular momentum that reduces the variation in the E-field and B-field tunability of the g factor if the area of the symmetric and asymmetric quantum dots is held constant. We identify level crossings and anticrossings of the electron states in the variation of the Landé g factor. We model the wave functions of electron spins and estimate the size of the anticrossing for the spin states |0, -1, +1/2 and |0,0, -1/2 corresponding to a quantum dot that has been recently studied experimentally [
The spin-1 carried by the nitrogen-vacancy (NV -) color center of a diamond is a promising candidate as a quantum bit (qubit) for the realization of a solid-state quantum computer. The interaction with the P 1 center, which is a single substitutional nitrogen atom with spin-1 2 , converts the NV -qubit to a multilevel system. The 18-level energy diagram of the NV --P 1 coupled defect pair exhibits several level anticrossings and the spin functions change sign at different values of the applied magnetic field. Beyond each resonance, the two electronic spins of the coupled triplet-doublet system flip individually or in concert, offering possibilities to implement quantum logic gates. Interlevel transitions are also possible. The transition probabilities can be predicted rigorously in the framework of the Landau-Zener theory. The spin flip occurs by quantum tunneling. It is also possible to introduce geometric phases, which can be useful for the realization of phase gates.
A finite-length topological-insulator nanowire, proximity-coupled to an ordinary bulk s-wave superconductor and subject to a longitudinal applied magnetic field, is shown to realize a one-dimensional topological superconductor with unpaired Majorana fermions localized at both ends. This situation occurs under a wide range of conditions and constitutes an easily accessible physical realization of the elusive Majorana particle in a solid-state system.
The emergence of scanning tunneling microscope (STM) lithography and low temperature molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) opens the possibility of creating scalable donor based quantum computing architectures. In particular, atomically precise Si:P monolayer structures (δ-doped layers) serve as crucial contact regions and in-plane gates in single impurity devices. In this paper we study highly confined δ-doped layers to explain the disorder in the P dopant placements in realistically extended systems. The band structure is computed using the tight-binding formalism and charge-potential self-consistency. The exchange-correlation corrected impurity potential pulls down subbands below the silicon valley minima to create impurity bands. Our methodology is benchmarked and validated against other theoretical methods for small ordered systems. The doping density is shown to linearly control the impurity bands. Disorder within the Si:P δ-doped layer is examined using an extended domain to describe the effects of experimentally unavoidable randomness through explicitly disordered dopant placement. Disorder in the δ-doped layer breaks the symmetry in the supercell and creates band splitting in every subband. Vertical segregation of dopants is shown to dramatically reduce valley splitting (VS). Such VS can be used as a measure of ideality of the fabricated Si:P δ-doped layer. Although the resulting disorder induces density of states fluctuations, this theoretical analysis shows that δ-doped layers can serve as quasimetallic 2D electron sources even in the presence of strong nonidealities.
We study the ground-state phase diagram of the quantum J 1 -J 2 model on the honeycomb lattice by means of an entangled-plaquette variational ansatz. Values of energy and relevant order parameters are computed in the range 0 J 2 /J 1 1. The system displays classical order for J 2 /J 1 0.2 (Néel) and for J 2 /J 1 0.4 (collinear). In the intermediate region, the ground state is disordered. Our results show that the reduction of the half-filled Hubbard model to the model studied here does not yield accurate predictions.
One-dimensional p-wave superconductors are known to harbor Majorana bound states at their ends. Superconducting wires with a finite width W may have fermionic subgap states in addition to possible Majorana end states. While they do not necessarily inhibit the use of Majorana end states for topological computation, these subgap states can obscure the identification of a topological phase through a density-of-states measurement. We present two simple models to describe low-energy fermionic subgap states. If the wire's width W is much smaller than the superconductor coherence length ξ , the relevant subgap states are localized near the ends of the wire and cluster near zero energy, whereas the lowest-energy subgap states are delocalized if W ξ . Notably, the energy of the lowest-lying fermionic subgap state (if present at all) has a maximum for W ∼ ξ .
We consider theoretically a superconducting qubit-nanomechanical resonator (NR) system, which was realized by LaHaye et al. [Nature (London) 459, 960 (2009)]. First, we study the problem where the state of the strongly driven qubit is probed through a frequency shift of the low-frequency NR. In the case where the coupling is capacitive, the measured quantity can be related to the so-called quantum capacitance. Our theoretical results agree with the experimentally observed result that, under resonant driving, the frequency shift repeatedly changes sign. We then formulate and solve the inverse Landau-Zener-Stückelberg problem, where we assume the driven qubit's state to be known (i.e., measured by some other device) and aim to find the parameters of the qubit's Hamiltonian. In particular, for our system the qubit's bias is defined by the NR's displacement. This may provide a tool for monitoring of the NR's position.
We report a systematic study of the hyperfine interaction between the electron spin of a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) defect in diamond and nearby 13 C nuclear spins, by using pulsed electron-spin resonance spectroscopy. We isolate a set of discrete values of the hyperfine coupling strength ranging from 14 MHz to 400 kHz and corresponding to 13 C nuclear spins placed at different lattice sites of the diamond matrix. For each lattice site, the hyperfine interaction is further investigated through nuclear-spin polarization measurements and by studying the magnetic field dependence of the hyperfine splitting. This work provides information that is relevant for the development of nuclear-spin-based quantum register in diamond.
Some models of the 5/2 fractional quantum Hall state predict that the quasiparticles, which carry the charge, have non-Abelian statistics: exchange of two quasiparticles changes the wave function more dramatically than just the usual change of phase factor. Such non-Abelian statistics would make the system less sensitive to decoherence, making it a candidate for implementation of topological quantum computation. We measure quasiparticle tunneling as a function of temperature and dc bias between counterpropagating edge states. Fits to theory give e * , the quasiparticle effective charge, close to the expected value of e/4 and g, the strength of the interaction between quasiparticles, close to 3/8. Fits corresponding to the various proposed wave functions, along with qualitative features of the data, strongly favor the Abelian 331 state.
For many types of superconducting qubits, magnetic flux noise is a source of pure dephasing. Measurements on a representative dc superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) over a range of temperatures show that S (f ) = A 2 /(f/1 Hz) α , where S is the flux noise spectral density, A is of the order of 1 μ 0 Hz -1/2 , 0.61 α 0.95, and 0 is the flux quantum. For a qubit with an energy level splitting linearly coupled to the applied flux, calculations of the dependence of the pure dephasing time τ φ of Ramsey and echo pulse sequences on α for fixed A show that τ φ decreases rapidly as α is reduced. We find that τ φ is relatively insensitive to the noise bandwidth, f 1 f f 2 , for all α provided the ultraviolet cutoff frequency f 2 > 1/τ φ . We calculate the ratio τ φ,E /τ φ,R of the echo (E) and Ramsey (R) sequences and the dependence of the decay function on α and f 2 . We investigate the case in which S (f 0 ) is fixed at the "pivot frequency" f 0 = 1 Hz while α is varied and find that the choice of f 0 can greatly influence the sensitivity of τ φ,E and τ φ,R to the value of α. Finally, we present calculated values of τ φ in a qubit corresponding to the values of A and α measured in our SQUID.
Optical initialization of the negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV -) center in diamond makes it one of the best candidates for realization of addressable spins in the solid state for quantum computing and other studies. However, its exact mechanism was not clear. We show that exact diagonalization of a many-electron Hamiltonian with parameters derived from ab initio GW calculations puts strong constraints on the mechanism. The energy surfaces of the low-energy many-body states and the relaxation processes of photoexcitation responsible for the optical initialization are calculated. Intersystem crossings are shown to be essential.
We compute the leading contribution to the ground-state Rényi entropy S α for a region of linear size L in a Fermi liquid in d dimensions. The result contains a universal boundary law violating term simply related to the more familiar entanglement entropy. We also obtain a universal crossover function that smoothly interpolates between the zero-temperature result and the ordinary thermal Rényi entropy of a Fermi liquid. Formulas for the entanglement entropy of more complicated regions, including nonconvex and disconnected regions, are obtained from the conformal field theory formulation of Fermi surface dynamics. These results permit an evaluation of the quantum mutual information between different regions in a Fermi liquid. We also study the number fluctuations in a Fermi liquid. Taken together, these results give a reasonably complete characterization of the low-energy quantum information content of Fermi liquids.
In this paper we study an interacting mixture of ultracold spinless fermions on the s band and bosons on the p band in a 2D square optical lattice, of which the effective model is reduced to a p-band fermionic system with nearest-neighbor attractive interaction. From this effective p-band model, we find a translation symmetry protected Z 2 topological superfluid that is characterized by a special fermion parity pattern at high-symmetry points in momentum space k = (0,0), (0,π ), (π,0), (π,π). Such Z 2 topological superfluid supports the robust Majorana edge modes and a new type of low-energy excitation-(supersymmetric) Z 2 link excitation.
Topological superconductors are prime candidates for the implementation of topological-quantum-computation ideas because they can support non-Abelian excitations such as Majorana fermions. We go beyond the low-energy effective-model descriptions of Majorana bound states (MBSs) to derive nonequilibrium transport properties of wire geometries of these systems in the presence of arbitrarily large applied voltages. Our approach involves quantum Langevin equations and nonequilibrium Green's functions. By virtue of a full microscopic calculation we are able to model the tunnel coupling between the superconducting wire and the metallic leads realistically, study the role of high-energy nontopological excitations, predict how the behavior compares for an increasing number of odd versus even number of sites, and study the evolution across the topological quantum phase transition (QPT). We find that the normalized spectral weight in the MBSs can be remarkably large and goes to zero continuously at the topological QPT. Our results have concrete implications for the experimental search and study of MBSs.
The development of a working quantum computer utilizing electron-spin states as qubits is a major goal for many theorists and experimentalists. The future applications of quantum information technology would also require a reliable method for the transportation of information between different parts of the system. One such promising method is the propagation of electrons by a surface acoustic wave (SAW). In this paper, we simulate the SAW transfer of two interacting electrons through a Y-shaped junction. Our results show that the singlet and triplet states can be differentiated in the Y junction by an electrostatic detuning potential, an effect that could be used in, for example, measuring the state of a two-spin qubit.
We perform Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interferometry on a single electron GaAs charge qubit by repeatedly driving the system through an avoided crossing. We observe coherent destruction of tunneling, where periodic driving with specific amplitudes inhibits current flow. We probe the quantum dot occupation using a charge detector, observing oscillations in the qubit population resulting from the microwave driving. At a frequency of 9 GHz we observe excitation processes driven by the absorption of up to 17 photons. Simulations of the qubit occupancy are in good agreement with the experimental data.
We describe an all-optical scheme for spin manipulation in the ground-state triplet of the negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. Virtual optical excitation from the 3 A 2 ground state into the 3 E excited state allows for spin rotations by virtue of the spin-spin interaction in the two-fold orbitally degenerate excited state. We derive an effective Hamiltonian for optically induced spin-flip transitions within the ground state spin triplet due to off-resonant optical pumping. Furthermore, we investigate the spin qubit formed by the Zeeman sublevels with spin projection m S = 0 and m S = -1 along the NV axis around the ground state level anticrossing with regard to full optical control of the electron spin.
Multimode spinless p-wave superconducting wires with a width W much smaller than the superconducting coherence length ξ are known to have multiple low-energy subgap states localized near the wire's ends. Here we compare the typical energies of such endstates for various terminations of the wire: A superconducting wire coupled to a normal-metal stub, a weakly disordered superconductor wire and a wire with smooth confinement. Depending on the termination, we find that the energies of the subgap states can be higher or lower than for the case of a rectangular wire with hard-wall boundaries.
Non-Abelian statistics is a phenomenon of topologically protected non-Abelian geometric phases as we exchange quasiparticle excitations. Here we construct a Z N rotor model that realizes a self-dual Z N Abelian gauge theory. We find that lattice dislocation defects in the model produce topologically protected degeneracy. Even though dislocations are not quasiparticle excitations, they resemble non-Abelian anyons with quantum dimension √ N. Exchanging dislocations can produce topologically protected projective non-Abelian geometric phases. Therefore, we discover a kind of (projective) non-Abelian anyon that appears as the dislocations in an Abelian Z N rotor model. These types of non-Abelian anyons can be viewed as a generalization of the Majorana zero modes.
Gate instability/hysteresis in modulation-doped p-type AlGaAs/GaAs heterostructures impedes the development of nanoscale hole devices, which are of interest for topics from quantum computing to novel spin physics. We present an extended study conducted using custom-grown, matched modulation-doped n-type and p-type heterostructures, with and without insulated gates, aimed at understanding the origin of the hysteresis. We show the hysteresis is not due to the inherent "leakiness" of gates on p-type heterostructures, as commonly believed. Instead, hysteresis arises from a combination of GaAs surface-state trapping and charge migration in the doping layer. Our results provide insights into the physics of Si acceptors in AlGaAs/GaAs heterostructures, including widely debated acceptor complexes such as Si-X. We propose methods for mitigating the gate hysteresis, including poisoning the modulation-doping layer with deep-trapping centers (e.g., by codoping with transition metal species) and replacing the Schottky gates with degenerately doped semiconductor gates to screen the conducting channel from GaAs surface states.
We present a first principles study of the electron-nuclear hyperfine-interaction (HF) in achiral single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs). We show that while HF coupling is small in perfect nanotubes, it is significantly enhanced near lattice defects such as vacancies and Stone-Wales pairs. The enhancement of hyperfine coupling near the defects varies considerably in different nanotubes which might pave the way to simultaneously identifying the chirality of carbon nanotubes and the defects inside them by sophisticated magnetic resonance techniques. Charged vacancy is proposed as a candidate for solid state qubit in semiconducting SWCNTs.
Bismuth ( 209 Bi) is the deepest group V donor in silicon and possesses the most extreme characteristics such as a 9/2 nuclear spin and a 1.5 GHz hyperfine coupling. These lead to several potential advantages for a Si:Bi donor electron spin qubit compared to the more common phosphorus donor. Most previous studies on Si:Bi have been performed using natural silicon where linewidths and electron spin coherence times are limited by the presence of 29 Si impurities. Here, we describe electron spin resonance (ESR) and electron nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) studies on 209 Bi in isotopically pure 28 Si. ESR and ENDOR linewidths, transition probabilities, and coherence times are understood in terms of the spin Hamiltonian parameters showing a dependence on field and m I of the 209 Bi nuclear spin. We explore various decoherence mechanisms applicable to the donor electron spin, measuring coherence times up to 700 ms at 1.7 K at X band, comparable with 28 Si:P. Importantly, the coherence times we measure follow closely to the calculated field gradients of the transition frequencies (df/dB), providing a strong motivation to explore "clock" transitions where coherence lifetimes could be further enhanced.
We study the effect of thermal fluctuations on the topological stability of chiral p-wave superconductors. We consider two models of superconductors: spinless and spinful with a focus on topological properties and Majorana zero-energy modes. We show that proliferation of vortex-antivortex pairs above the Kosterlitz-Thouless temperature T KT drives the transition from a thermal quantum hall insulator to a thermal metal/insulator, and dramatically modifies the ground-state degeneracy splitting. Therefore, to utilize two-dimensional chiral p-wave superconductors for topological quantum computing, the temperature should be much smaller than T KT . Within the spinful chiral p-wave model, we also investigate the interplay between half-quantum vortices carrying Majorana zero-energy modes and full-quantum vortices having trivial topological charge, and discuss topological properties of half-quantum vortices in the background of proliferating full-quantum vortices.
We investigate the phonon-induced relaxation dynamics in the Fe 7 magnetic molecule, which is made of two Fe 3+ triangles bridged together by a central Fe 3+ ion. The competition between different antiferromagnetic exchange interactions leads to a low-spin ground state multiplet with a complex pattern of low-lying excited levels. We theoretically investigate the decay of the time correlation function of molecular observables, such as the cluster magnetization, due to the spin-phonon interaction. We find that more than one time contributes to the decay of the molecular magnetization. The relaxation dynamics is probed by measurements of the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T 1 . The interpretation of these measurements allows the determination of the magnetoelastic coupling strength and to set the scale factor of the relaxation dynamics time scales. In our theoretical interpretation of 1/T 1 data we also take into account the wipeout effect at low temperatures.
We study phase slips in one-dimensional topological superconducting wires. These wires have been proposed as building blocks for topologically protected qubits in which the quantum information is distributed over the length of the device and thus is immune to local sources of decoherence. However, phase slips are nonlocal events that can result in decoherence. Phase slips in topological superconductors are peculiar for the reason that they occur in multiples of 4π (instead of 2π in conventional superconductors). We reestablish this fact via a beautiful analogy to the particle physics concept of dynamic symmetry breaking by explicitly finding a "hidden" zero mode in the fermion spectrum computed in the background of a 2π phase slip. Armed with the understanding of phase slips in topological superconductors, we propose a simple experimental setup with which the predictions can be tested by monitoring the tunneling rate of a superconducting flux quantum through a topological superconducting wire.
We theoretically consider g factor and spin lifetimes of holes in a longitudinal Ge/Si core/shell nanowire quantum dot that is exposed to external magnetic and electric fields. For the ground states, we find a large anisotropy of the g factor which is highly tunable by applying electric fields. This tunability depends strongly on the direction of the electric field with respect to the magnetic field. We calculate the single-phonon hole spin relaxation times T 1 for zero and small electric fields and propose an optimal setup in which very large T 1 of the order of tens of milliseconds can be reached. Increasing the relative shell thickness or the longitudinal confinement length further prolongs T 1 . In the absence of electric fields, the dephasing vanishes and the decoherence time T 2 is determined by T 2 = 2T 1 .
In this work the inhomogeneous (zero-phonon line) and homogeneous linewidths and the permanent electric dipole moment change (averaged value of all dipole orientations) for the Ce 4f -5d transition in Y 2 SiO 5 were measured in order to investigate the possibility for using Ce as a sensor to detect the hyperfine state of a spatially close-lying Pr or Eu ion. The experiments were carried out on Ce doped or Ce-Pr co-doped single Y 2 SiO 5 crystals. The homogeneous linewidth is essentially limited by the excited state lifetime. Based on the linewidth measurements, the oscillator strength, absorption cross section, and saturation intensity were calculated to be about 6.2(±1.7) × 10 -7 , 4.5(±1.3) × 10 -19 m 2 , and 1.4(±0.4) × 10 7 W/m 2 , respectively. The difference in permanent dipole moment, μ Ce , between the ground and excited states of the Ce ion was measured as 9.6(±5.3) × 10 -30 C m. These measurements indicate that Ce is a promising readout ion to probe a single-ion qubit state for the quantum computing scheme using rare-earth ions.
A multiterminal device based on a carbon nanotube quantum dot was used at very low temperature to probe a single electronic and nuclear spin embedded in a bis-(phthalocyaninato) terbium (III) complex (TbPc 2 ). A spin-valve signature with large conductance jumps was found when two molecules were strongly coupled to the nanotube. The application of a transverse field separated the magnetic signal of both molecules and enabled single-shot read-out of the terbium nuclear spin. The Landau-Zener (LZ) quantum tunneling probability was studied as a function of field sweep rate, establishing a good agreement with the LZ equation and yielding the tunnel splitting . It was found that increased linearly as a function of the transverse field. These studies are an essential prerequisite for the coherent manipulation of a single nuclear spin in TbPc 2 .
We study an SU(2) symmetric spin-3/2 model on the z = 3 Bethe lattice using the infinite time evolving block decimation (iTEBD) method. This model is shown to exhibit a rich phase diagram. We compute several order parameters which allow us to identify a ferromagnetic, a ferrimagnetic, an antiferromagnetic, as well as a dimerized phase. We calculate the entanglement spectra from which we conclude the existence of a symmetry protected topological phase that is characterized by S = 1/2 edge spins. Details of the iTEBD algorithm used for the simulations are included.
Iridate thin films are a prerequisite for any application utilizing their cooperative effects resulting from the interplay of strong spin-orbit coupling and electronic correlations. Here, heteroepitaxial Na 2 IrO 3 thin films with (001) out-of-plane crystalline orientation and well-defined in-plane epitaxial relationship are presented on various oxide substrates. Resistivity is dominated by a three-dimensional variable-range hopping mechanism in a large temperature range between 300 K and 40 K. Optical experiments show the onset of a small optical gap E go ≈ 200 meV and a splitting of the Ir 5d-t 2g manifold. Positive magnetoresistance below 3 T and 25 K shows signatures of a weak antilocalization effect.
We study the Rényi mutual information of classical systems characterized by a transfer matrix. We first establish a general relationship between the Rényi mutual information of such classical mixtures of configuration states and the Rényi entropy of a corresponding Rokhsar-Kivelson-type quantum superposition. We then focus on chiral and nonchiral kagome-ice systems, classical spin liquids on the kagome lattice, which respectively have critical and short-range correlations. Through a mapping of the chiral kagome ice to the quantum Liftshitz critical field theory, we predict a universal subleading term in the Rényi mutual information of this classical spin liquid, which can be realized in the pyrochlore spin ice in a magnetic field. We verify our prediction with direct numerical transfer-matrix computations, and further demonstrate that the nonchiral kagome ice (and the corresponding quantum Rokhsar-Kivelson superposition) is a topologically trivial phase. Finally, we argue that the universal term in the mutual information of the chiral kagome ice is fragile against the presence of defects.
We present a scheme for full quantum state tomography tailored for two spin qubits in a double quantum dot. A set of 15 quantum states allows to determine the density matrix in this two-qubit space by projective measurement. In this paper, we choose a set gained from mutually unbiased bases. We determine how those 15 projections can be represented by charge measurements after a spin-to-charge conversion and the application of quantum gates. The quantum gates include exchange-based gates as well as rotations by electron spin resonance (ESR). We assume the experimental realization of ESR operations to be more difficult than the exchange gate operation with respect to fidelity and speed. Therefore it is an important result that the ESR gates can be limited to a π/2 rotation for one of the electron spins per measurement.
We investigate the low-energy spectral properties and robustness of the topological phase of color code, which is a quantum spin model for the aim of fault-tolerant quantum computation, in the presence of a uniform magnetic field or Ising interactions, using high-order series expansion and exact diagonalization. In a uniform magnetic field, we find first-order phase transitions in all field directions. In contrast, our results for the Ising interactions unveil that for strong enough Ising couplings, the Z 2 × Z 2 topological phase of color code breaks down to symmetry broken phases by first-or second-order phase transitions.
We investigate the wave functions, spectrum, and g-factor anisotropy of low-energy electrons confined to self-assembled, pyramidal InAs quantum dots (QDs) subject to external magnetic and electric fields. We present the construction of trial wave functions for a pyramidal geometry with hard-wall confinement. We explicitly find the ground and first excited states and show the associated probability distributions and energies. Subsequently, we use these wave functions and 8-band k • p theory to derive a Hamiltonian describing the QD states close to the valence band edge. Using a perturbative approach, we find an effective conduction band Hamiltonian describing low-energy electronic states in the QD. From this, we further extract the magnetic field dependent eigenenergies and associated g factors. We examine the g factors regarding anisotropy and behavior under small electric fields. In particular, we find strong anisotropies, with the specific shape depending strongly on the considered QD level. Our results are in good agreement with recent measurements [Takahashi et al., Phys. Rev. B 87, 161302 (2013)] and support the possibility to control a spin qubit by means of g-tensor modulation.
We demonstrate how the nontrivial interplay between spin-orbit coupling and nodeless s-wave superconductivity can drive a fully gapped two-band topological insulator into a time-reversal invariant gapless topological superconductor supporting symmetry-protected Majorana flat bands. We characterize topological phase diagrams by a Z 2 × Z 2 partial Berry-phase invariant, and show that, despite the trivial crystal geometry, no unique bulk-boundary correspondence exists. We trace this behavior to the anisotropic quasiparticle bulk gap closing, linear vs quadratic, and argue that this provides a unifying principle for gapless topological superconductivity. Experimental implications for tunneling conductance measurements are addressed, relevant for lead chalcogenide materials.
We study the Shannon mutual information in one-dimensional critical spin chains, following a recent conjecture [Alcaraz and Rajabpour, Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 017201 (2013)], as well as Rényi generalizations of it. We combine conformal field theory (CFT) arguments with numerical computations in lattice discretizations with central charge c = 1 and c = 1/2. For a periodic system of length L cut into two parts of length and L -, all our results agree with the general shape dependence I n ( ,L) = (b n /4) ln( L π sin π L ), where b n is a universal coefficient. For the free boson CFT we show from general arguments that b n = c = 1. At c = 1/2 we conjecture a result for n > 1. We perform extensive numerical computations in Ising chains to confirm this, and also find b 1 0.4801629(2), a nontrivial number which we do not understand analytically. Open chains at c = 1/2 and n = 1 are even more intriguing, with a shape-dependent logarithmic divergence of the Shannon mutual information.
Quantum memories are integral parts of both quantum computers and quantum communication networks. Naturally, such a memory is embedded into a hybrid quantum architecture, which has to meet the requirements of fast gates, long coherence times, and long distance communication. Erbium-doped crystals are well suited as a microwave quantum memory for superconducting circuits with additional access to the optical telecom C band around 1.55 μm. Here, we report on circuit QED experiments with an Er 3+ :YAlO 3 crystal and demonstrate strong coupling to a superconducting lumped element resonator. The low magnetic anisotropy of the host crystal allows for attaining the strong coupling regime at relatively low magnetic fields, which are compatible with superconducting circuits. In addition, Ce 3+ impurities were detected in the crystal, which showed strong coupling as well.
In our original paper, we investigated the phonon-mediated decay of singlet-triplet qubits in double quantum dots (DQDs) in the biased and unbiased regime, where we inadvertently omitted relevant references regarding the dephasing mechanism which does not require hyperfine or spin-orbit interaction. Here, we wish to correct this omission and note that this mechanism corresponds to a two-phonon Raman process and has been studied before for impurity atoms [1-4], particularly in the presence of singlet states 
Several algorithms have been proposed to calculate the spatial entanglement spectrum from high order Rényi entropies and maximum entropy techniques. We present an alternative approach for computing the entanglement spectrum with quantum Monte Carlo for both continuum and lattice Hamiltonians. This method provides direct access to the matrix elements of the spatially reduced density matrix and we determine an estimator that can be used in variational Monte Carlo as well as other Monte Carlo methods. The algorithm is based on using a generalization of the SWAP operator, which can be extended to calculate a general class of density matrices that can include combinations of spin, space, particle, and even momentum degrees of freedom. We demonstrate the method by applying it to the H 2 and N 2 molecules and describe how the spatial entanglement spectrum encodes a covalent bond that includes all the many body correlations.
We performed electron spin-resonance measurements on single crystals of the molecular nanomagnet V 15 using a novel broadband spectrometer, both in parallel and in perpendicular modes, we see (B 1 B 0 ,B 1 ⊥ B 0 ). Measurements were carried out in proximity of the spin level crossing at B 0 = 2.75 T. We observed spin-forbidden transitions from the S = 1/2 zero-field ground state to the S = 3/2 excited state in parallel mode spectra. Spin-forbidden transitions are employed for switching of coherent interactions between qubits in recent quantum simulator proposals. Our theoretical investigations showed that the mixing of spin states can result from either an antisymmetric exchange interaction or a combination of static distortion and hyperfine interaction.
Among the factors determining the quantum coherence of the spin in molecular magnets are the presence and the nature of nuclear spins in the molecule. We have explored modifying the nuclear-spin environment in Cr 7 Ni-based molecular nanomagnets by replacing hydrogen atoms with deuterium or the halogen atoms, fluorine or chlorine. We find that the spin coherence, studied at low temperatures by pulsed electron-spin resonance, is modified by a range of factors, including nuclear spin and magnetic moment, changes in dynamics owing to nuclear mass, and molecular morphology changes.
Realizing topological insulators in commonly used III-V semiconductors is of great importance for their potential application in spintronics and quantum computing. Here we propose a general strategy to realize topological insulators in conventional III-V semiconductors by bismuth substitution and external strain. Based on first-principles calculations, we identify that AlBi (GaBi and InBi) become topological insulators (semimetals) under proper external strain by directly calculating Z 2 invariants and surface states. Furthermore, we demonstrate that a topological phase transition can be induced by Bi substitution in common III-V semiconductors like GaAs. These proposed topological insulators can be easily integrated into various semiconductor electronic devices and modulated by well-developed modern semiconductor technologies.
We present a perturbative treatment of the subohmic spin-boson model which remedies a crucial flaw in previous treatments. The problem is traced back to the incorrect application of a Markov type approximation to specific terms in the temporal evolution of the reduced density matrix. The modified solution is consistent both with numerical simulations and the exact solution obtained when the bath-coupling spin-space direction is parallel to the qubit energy-basis spin. We therefore demonstrate that the subohmic spin-boson model is capable of describing arbitrarily small ratios of the T 2 and T 1 decoherence times, associated with the decay of the off-diagonal and diagonal reduced density-matrix elements, respectively. An analytical formula for T 2 /T 1 at the absolute zero of temperature is provided in the limit of a subohmic bath with vanishing spectral power law exponent. Small ratios closely mimic the experimental results for solid state (flux) qubits, which are subject predominantly to low-frequency electromagnetic noise, and we suggest a reanalysis of the corresponding experimental data in terms of a nonanalytic decay of off-diagonal coherence.
Nanowire double quantum dots occupied by an even number of electrons are investigated in the context of energy level structure revealed by electric dipole spin resonance measurements. We use a numerically exact configuration interaction approach up to six electrons for systems tuned to a Pauli spin blockade regime. We point out the differences between the spectra of systems with two and a greater number of electrons. For two electrons the unequal length of the dots results in a different effective g factor in the dots as observed by the recent experiments. For an increased number of electrons the g-factor difference between the dots appears already for symmetric systems and it is greatly amplified when the dots are of unequal length. We find that the energy splitting defining the resonant electric dipole spin frequency can be quite precisely described by the two electrons involved in the Pauli blockade with the lower-energy occupied states forming a frozen core.
Silicon carbide with engineered point defects is considered as very promising material for the next generation devices, with applications ranging from electronics and photonics to quantum computing. In this context, we investigate the spin physics of the carbon antisite-vacancy pair that in its positive charge state enables a single photon source. We find by hybrid density functional theory and many-body perturbation theory that the neutral defect possesses a high spin ground state in 4H silicon carbide and provide spin-resonance signatures for its experimental identification. Our results indicate the possibility for the coherent manipulation of the electron spin by optical excitation of this defect at telecom wavelengths, and suggest the defect as a candidate for an alternative solid state quantum bit.
We report strong coupling between an ensemble of N impurity (P 1) centers in diamond and microwave photons using a unique double-post reentrant cavity. The cavity is designed so that the magnetic component of the cavity field is spatially separated from the electric component and focused into the small volume in which the diamond sample is mounted. The novelty of the structure simultaneously allows the high magnetic filling factor (38.4%) and low frequencies necessary to interact, at low magnetic field, with transitions in diamond such as those in negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy and P 1 centers. Coupling strength (or normal-mode splitting) of 51.42 MHz was achieved with P 1 centers at 6.18 GHz and 220 mT in a centimeter-scale cavity, with a corresponding cooperativity factor of 4.7. This technique offers an alternative way, with some significant advantages, to couple 3D cavities to transitions in diamond and achieve the strong coupling necessary for applications to quantum information processing.
Combining scanning tunneling microscopy and first-principles calculations, we have shown that single Co atoms adsorbed on a Si(111)-(7 × 7) surface have eight different configurations that possess different spin magnetic moments. Despite the large adsorption energy, we have demonstrated that both the position and the spin state of single adsorbed Co atoms can be well controlled through the vertical atomic manipulation and the "tip-touch" operation that converts Co atoms among various adsorption configurations. Our approach to construct atomic-scale magnetic structures on a semiconductor surface can provide a new pathway to realize spin-based devices, including a scalable solid-state quantum computer.
We propose that low-strain Si/O superlattices can be constructed by connecting reconstructed Si{001} surfaces by Si-O-Si bridges. Ab initio calculations show that our models are energetically more favorable than all the models proposed so far. The part of our Si/O superlattice model is experimentally accessible just by oxidizing a Si(001) substrate. To complete our Si/O superlattice model, we propose a three-step method. We also explore the potential of our Si/O superlattice models for new materials used in future Si electronics. We find that the location of the channel where the carriers travel can be controlled between the interfaces and the Si layers by the insertion of O atoms into the Si-Si dimers. By revealing the origins of the interface electron and hole states, we find that similar interface states should be easily achieved for Si slabs and Si substrates. Interestingly, the interface electrons and holes have small effective masses in the direction parallel to the channel and large effective masses in the direction normal to the channel, which makes the Si/O superlattices attractive to be used for channel materials. We also find that the valley splitting of Si is enhanced by the formation of the Si/O/Si interfaces, which is ideal for developing Si-based qubits. Our findings open new perspectives to design and control the electronic properties of Si.
The stability of the topological order phase induced by the Z 3 Kitaev model, which is a candidate for fault-tolerant quantum computation, against the local order phase induced by the three-state Potts model is studied. We show that the low-energy sector of the Kitaev-Potts model is mapped to the Potts model in the presence of transverse magnetic field. Our study relies on two high-order series expansions based on continuous unitary transformations in the limits of small and large Potts couplings as well as mean-field approximation. Our analysis reveals that the topological phase of the Z 3 Kitaev model breaks down to the Potts model through a first-order phase transition. We capture the phase transition by analysis of the ground-state energy, one-quasiparticle gap, and geometric measure of entanglement.
There are several possible theoretically allowed non-Abelian fractional quantum Hall (FQH) states that could potentially be realized in one-and two-component FQH systems at total filling fraction ν = n + 2/3, for integer n. Some of these states even possess quasiparticles with non-Abelian statistics that are powerful enough for universal topological quantum computation, and are thus of particular interest. Here we initiate a systematic numerical study, using both exact diagonalization and variational Monte Carlo, to investigate the phase diagram of FQH systems at total filling fraction ν = n + 2/3, including in particular the possibility of the non-Abelian Z 4 parafermion state. In ν = 2/3 bilayers we determine the phase diagram as a function of interlayer tunneling and repulsion, finding only three competing Abelian states, without the Z 4 state. On the other hand, in single-component systems at ν = 8/3, we find that the Z 4 parafermion state has significantly higher overlap with the exact ground state than the Laughlin state, together with a larger gap, suggesting that the experimentally observed ν = 8/3 state may be non-Abelian. Our results from the two complementary numerical techniques agree well with each other qualitatively.
We propose a U(1) × Z 2 effective gauge theory for vortices in a p x + ip y superfluid in two dimensions. The combined gauge transformation binds U(1) and Z 2 defects so that the total transformation remains single-valued and manifestly preserves the particle-hole symmetry of the action. The Z 2 gauge field introduces a complete Chern-Simons term in addition to a partial one associated with the U(1) gauge field. The theory reproduces the known physics of vortex dynamics such as a Magnus force proportional to the superfluid density. More importantly, it predicts a universal Abelian phase, exp(iπ/8), upon the exchange of two vortices. This phase is modified by nonuniversal corrections due to the partial Chern-Simon term, which are nevertheless screened in a charged superfluid at distances that are larger than the penetration depth.
We employ hybrid density functional calculations to search for defects in different polytypes of SiC that may serve as qubits for quantum computing. We explore the divacancy in 4H -and 3C-SiC, consisting of a carbon vacancy adjacent to a silicon vacancy, and the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in 3C-SiC, in which the substitutional N C sits next to a Si vacancy (N C -V Si ). The calculated excitation and emission energies of the divacancy in 4H -SiC are in excellent agreement with experimental data, and aid in identifying the four unique configurations of the divacancy with the four distinct zero-phonon lines observed experimentally. For 3C-SiC, we identify the paramagnetic defect that was recently shown to maintain a coherent quantum state up to room temperature as the spin-1 neutral divacancy. Finally, we show that the (N C -V Si ) -center in 3C-SiC is highly promising for quantum information science, and we provide guidance for identifying this defect.
We propose an optimized set of quantum gates for a singlet-triplet qubit in a double quantum dot with two electrons utilizing the S-T -subspace. Qubit rotations are driven by the applied magnetic field and a field gradient provided by a micromagnet. We optimize the fidelity of this qubit as a function of the magnetic fields, taking advantage of "sweet spots" where the rotation frequencies are independent of the energy level detuning, providing protection against charge noise. We simulate gate operations and qubit rotations in the presence of quasistatic noise from charge and nuclear spins as well as leakage to nonqubit states. Our results show that, for silicon quantum dots, gate fidelities greater than 99% should be realizable, for rotations about two nearly orthogonal axes.
Single spin carrying defects are key elements in quantum information and nanosensing technology with the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond being the outstanding example. In a combined electron paramagnetic resonance and first-principles modeling study we verify the existence of such NV centers in 4H -SiC in the form of silicon vacancy-nitrogen pairs (V Si N C ) and explore their basic magneto-optical properties. Similar to the NV center in diamond, the 3 A 2 triplet ground state (with a zero-field splitting of D = 429 × 10 -4 cm -1 ) of the singly negative charge state in axial coordination can be optically spin polarized at room temperature. Given the mature technology of 4H -SiC the NV center in this material is expected to play an important role in future spintronics applications.
We demonstrate an efficient control of 29 Si nuclear spins for specific lattice sites near 31 P donors in silicon at temperatures below 1 K and in a high magnetic field of 4.6 T. Excitation of the forbidden electron-nuclear transitions leads to a pattern of well-resolved holes and peaks in the electron spin resonance (ESR) lines of 31 P. The pattern originates from dynamic polarization (DNP) of the 29 Si nuclear spins near the donors via the solid effect. DNP of 29 Si is demonstrated also with the Overhauser effect where the allowed ESR transitions are excited. In this case mostly the remote 29 Si nuclei having weak interaction with the donors are polarized, which results in a single hole and a sharp peak pair in the ESR spectrum. Our work shows that the solid effect can be used for initialization of 29 Si nuclear spin qubits near the donors.
We consider an interaction quench in the critical spin-1 2 Heisenberg XXZ chain. We numerically compute the time evolution of the two-point correlation functions of spin operators in the thermodynamic limit and compare the results to predictions obtained in the framework of the Luttinger liquid approximation. We find that the transverse correlation function S x j S x j +
Nuclear spins are an important source of dephasing for electron spin qubits in GaAs quantum dots. Most studies of their dynamics have focused on the relatively slow longitudinal polarization. We present a semiclassical model and experimental data showing that the dynamics of the transverse hyperfine field can be probed by correlating individual Landau-Zener sweeps across the S-T + transition of a two-electron spin qubit. The relative Larmor precession of different nuclear spin species leads to oscillations in these correlations, which decay due to dephasing of the nuclei. In the presence of spin-orbit coupling, oscillations with the absolute Larmor frequencies whose amplitude depends on the spin-orbit coupling strength are expected. These oscillations reflect rapid dynamics of the transverse hyperfine field, which are relevant for several qubit control schemes.
In the topological phase of p-wave superconductors, zero-energy Majorana quasiparticle excitations can be well defined in the presence of local density-density interactions. Here, we examine this phenomenon from the perspective of matrix representations of the commutator H = [H,•], with the aim of characterizing the multiparticle content of the many-body Majorana mode. To do this we show that, for quadratic fermionic systems, H can always be decomposed into subblocks that act as multiparticle generalizations of the Bogoliubov-de Gennes/Majorana forms that encode single-particle excitations. In this picture, density-density-like interactions will break this exact excitation-number symmetry, coupling different subblocks and lifting degeneracies so that the eigenoperators of the commutator H take the form of individual eigenstate transitions | n m |. However, the Majorana mode is special in that zero-energy transitions are not destroyed by local interactions and it becomes possible to define many-body Majoranas as the odd-parity zero-energy solutions of H that minimize their excitation number. This idea forms the basis for an algorithm which is used to characterize the multiparticle excitation content of the Majorana zero modes of the one-dimensional p-wave lattice model. We find that the multiparticle content of the Majorana zero-mode operators is significant even at modest interaction strengths. This has important consequences for the stability of Majorana-based qubits when they are coupled to a heat bath. We will also discuss how these findings differ from previous work regarding the structure of the many-body Majorana operators and point out that this should affect how certain experimental features are interpreted.
The silicon vacancy in silicon carbide is a strong emergent candidate for applications in quantum information processing and sensing. We perform room temperature optically detected magnetic resonance and spin echo measurements on an ensemble of vacancies and find the spin echo properties depend strongly on magnetic field. The spin echo decay time varies from less than 10 μs at low fields to 80 μs at 68 mT, and a strong field-dependent spin echo modulation is also observed. The modulation is attributed to the interaction with nuclear spins and is well described by a theoretical model.
Selenium impurities in silicon are deep double donors and their optical and electronic properties have been recently investigated due to their application for infrared detection. However, a singly ionized selenium donor (Se + ) possesses an electron spin which makes it a potential candidate as a silicon-based spin qubit, with significant potential advantages compared to the more commonly studied group V donors. Here we study the electron spin relaxation (T 1 ) and coherence (T 2 ) times of Se + in isotopically purified 28-silicon, and find them to be up to two orders of magnitude longer than shallow group V donors at temperatures above ∼15 K. We further study the dynamics of donor-acceptor recombination between selenium and boron, demonstrating that it is possible to control the donor charge state through optical excitation of neutral Se 0 .
The analytical solution for the low-temperature 1/f noise in the microwave dielectric constant of amorphous films at frequency ν 0 ∼ 5 GHz due to tunneling two-level systems (TLSs) is derived within the standard tunneling model including the weak dipolar or elastic TLS-TLS interactions. The 1/f frequency dependence is caused by TLS spectral diffusion characterized by the width growing logarithmically with time. Temperature and field dependencies are predicted for the noise spectral density in typical glasses with universal TLSs. The satisfactory interpretation of the recent experiment by J. Burnett et al. [Nat. Commun. 5, 4119 (2014)] in Pt-capped Nb superconducting resonators is attained by assuming a smaller density of TLSs compared to ordinary glasses, which is consistent with the very high internal quality factor in those samples.
We theoretically study exotic superconducting phases in graphene-like single-sheet material BC 3 doped to its type-II van Hove singularity whose saddle-point momenta are not time-reversal invariant. From combined renormalization group analysis and random-phase approximation calculations, we show that the dominant superconducting instability induced by weak repulsive interactions is in the time-reversal-invariant p + ip pairing channel because of the interplay among dominant ferromagnetic fluctuations, subleading spin fluctuations at finite momentum, and spin-orbit coupling. Such time-reversal-invariant p + ip superconductivity has nontrivial Z 2 topological invariant. Our results show that doped BC 3 provides a promising route to realizing a genuine two-dimensional helical p + ip superconductor.
The electron and nuclear spins of donor impurities in enriched 28 Si have great potential as long-lived qubits for a silicon-based quantum information technology. The ability to resolve the hyperfine-split neutral donor ground-state levels in the near-infrared donor bound exciton transitions of the ubiquitous phosphorus impurity in highly isotopically enriched 28 Si has led to new methods of hyperpolarizing and measuring the donor electron and nuclear spins. This has resulted in optically assisted magnetic resonance methods that have permitted the measurement of remarkably long nuclear coherence times for both the neutral and ionized phosphorus donor in very lightly doped and highly enriched 28 Si. Other shallow donors such as arsenic, antimony, and bismuth offer the potential of larger hyperfine couplings and nuclear spins as compared to phosphorus. Here, we investigate whether donor bound exciton transitions can be used to initialize and read out the nuclear spins of arsenic and antimony in 28 Si. The projective readout of the electron and nuclear spins is demonstrated for both 75 As and 121 Sb, and these optical transitions can strongly hyperpolarize the nuclear spin of 75 As. Only a small nuclear hyperpolarization is achieved for 121 Sb, likely due to the relative weakness of the no-phonon transition of the Sb donor bound exciton. Optically assisted EPR and NMR is demonstrated for 75 As, including Hahn echo coherence time measurements of the six NMR transitions.
We found that there are some mistakes in the logarithmic corrections in Eq. ( 
The Kondo effect, which originates from the screening of a localized magnetic moment by a spin-spin interaction, is widely observed in nonartificial magnetic materials, artificial quantum dots, and carbon nanotubes. In devices based on quantum dots or carbon nanotubes that target quantum information applications, the Kondo effect can be tuned by a gate voltage, a magnetic field, or light. However, the manipulation of the Kondo effect in nonartificial materials has not been thoroughly studied; in particular, the artificial creation of the Kondo effect remains unexplored. Per this subject study, however, a route for the optical creation of the Kondo effect in the nonartificial material p-type semiconductor CeZn 3 P 3 is presented. The Kondo effect emerges under visible-light illumination of the material by a continuouswave laser diode and is ultimately revealed by photoinduced electrical resistivity, which clearly exhibits a logarithmic temperature dependency. By contrast, a La-based compound (LaZn 3 P 3 ) displays only normal metallic behavior under similar illumination. The photoinduced Kondo effect, which occurs at higher temperatures when compared with the Kondo effect in artificial systems, provides a potential range of operation for not only quantum information/computation devices but also for operation of magneto-optic devices, thereby expanding the range of device applications based on the Kondo effect.
We use the proximity effect to generate effective topological superconductors by placing metals with strong spin-orbit coupling in contact with a superconductor, aiming to produce Majorana zero modes useful for topologically protected quantum computation. In recent experiments, several quintuple layers of Bi 2 Se 3 were epitaxially grown on the high-T c material Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8+δ , and conflicting experimental results were reported. We use the standard mean-field approach to study this heterostructure and find it is unlikely to have a large proximity-induced superconducting gap. Despite the seemingly correct temperature dependence, the s-wave gap claimed to be observed may not be purely superconducting in origin. Future work on the proximity-induced bulk superconducting gap and the interfacial band structure should shed light on this issue.
Using single spins in semiconductor quantum dots as qubits requires full control over the spin state. As the g tensor provides the coupling in a Hamiltonian between a spin and an external magnetic field, a deeper understanding of the g tensor underlies magnetic-field control of the spin. The g tensor is affected by the presence of spin-correlated orbital currents, of which the spatial structure has been recently clarified. Here we extend that framework to investigate the influence of the shape of quantum dots on the anisotropy of the electron g tensor. We find that the spin-correlated orbital currents form a simple current loop perpendicular to the magnetic moment's orientation. The current loop is therefore directly sensitive to the shape of the nanostructure: for cylindrical quantum dots, the electron g-tensor anisotropy is mainly governed by the aspect ratio of the dots. Through a systematic experimental study of the size dependence of the separate electron and hole g tensors of InAs/InP quantum dots, we have validated this picture. Moreover, we find that through size engineering it is possible to independently change the sign of the in-plane and growth direction electron g factors. The hole g tensor is found to be strongly anisotropic and very sensitive to the radius and elongation. The comparable importance of itinerant and localized currents to the hole g tensor complicates the analysis relative to the electron g tensor.
We study Landau-Zener-Stückelberg (LZS) interferometry in multilevel systems coupled to an Ohmic quantum bath. We consider the case of superconducting flux qubits driven by a dc+ac magnetic fields, but our results can apply to other similar systems. We find a dynamic transition manifested by a symmetry change in the structure of the LZS interference pattern, plotted as a function of ac amplitude and dc detuning. The dynamic transition is from an LZS pattern with nearly symmetric multiphoton resonances to antisymmetric multiphoton resonances at long times (above the relaxation time). We also show that the presence of a resonant mode in the quantum bath can impede the dynamic transition when the resonant frequency is of the order of the qubit gap. Our results are obtained by a numerical calculation of the finite time and the asymptotic stationary population of the qubit states, using the Floquet-Markov approach to solve a realistic model of the flux qubit considering up to ten energy levels.
Optical illumination on negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV -) centers inevitably causes stochastic chargestate transitions between the NV -and the neutral charge state of the NV center. It limits the steady-state population of NV -to 5% at minimum (∼610 nm) and 80% (∼532 nm) at maximum in intrinsic diamond depending on the wavelength. Here, we show Fermi-level control by phosphorus doping generates 99.4 ± 0.1% NV -under 1-μW and 593-nm excitation which is close to maximum absorption of NV -. The pure NV -shows a fivefold increase in luminescence and a fourfold enhancement of an optically detected magnetic resonance under 593-nm excitation compared with those in intrinsic diamond.
Defects in silicon carbide are of intense and increasing interest for quantum-based applications due to this material's properties and technological maturity. We calculate the multiparticle symmetry-adapted wave functions of the negatively charged silicon vacancy defect in hexagonal silicon carbide via use of group theory and density functional theory and find the effects of spin-orbit and spin-spin interactions on these states. Although we focused on V - Si in 4H -SiC because of its unique fine structure due to the odd number of active electrons, our methods can be easily applied to other defect centers of different polytypes, especially to the 6H -SiC. Based on these results, we identify the mechanism that polarizes the spin under optical drive, obtain the ordering of its dark doublet states, point out a path for electric field or strain sensing, and find the theoretical value of its ground-state zero-field splitting to be 68 MHz, in good agreement with experiment. Moreover, we present two distinct protocols of a spin-photon interface based on this defect. Our results pave the way toward quantum information and quantum metrology applications with silicon carbide.
We present angle-dependent measurements of the effective g factor g in a Ge-Si core-shell nanowire quantum dot. g is found to be maximum when the magnetic field is pointing perpendicularly to both the nanowire and the electric field induced by local gates. Alignment of the magnetic field with the electric field reduces g significantly. g is almost completely quenched when the magnetic field is aligned with the nanowire axis. These findings confirm recent calculations, where the obtained anisotropy is attributed to a Rashba-type spin-orbit interaction induced by heavy-hole light-hole mixing. In principle, this facilitates manipulation of spin-orbit qubits by means of a continuous high-frequency electric field.
The time evolution of magnetization induced by circularly polarized light in an S = 1 Heisenberg chain with large easy-plane anisotropy is studied numerically and analytically. Results at constant light frequency = 0 are interpreted in terms of absorption lines of the electronic spin resonance spectrum. The application of time-dependent frequency = (t) light, so called chirping, is shown to be an efficient procedure in order to obtain within a short time a large, controlled value of the magnetization M z . Furthermore, comparison with a two-level model provides a qualitative understanding of the induced magnetization process.
We theoretically investigate the development of unconventional superconductivity in the Sb(111) thin film when its Fermi level is tuned to near type-II Van Hove singularities (VHS), which locate at non-time-reversal invariant momenta. Via patch renormalization group analysis, we show that the leading instability is a chiral p + ip-wave superconducting order. The origin of such pairing relies on the hexagonal structure of the VHS and strong spin-orbit coupling, resulting in the anisotropy of the electron-electron scattering to provide an attractive channel. Our study hence suggests that superconducting Sb thin films originated from VHS physics may host Majorana zero modes in the magnetic vortices and provides another application perspective to such material.
Spectral diffusion arising from 29 Si nuclear spin flip-flops, known to be a primary source of electron spin decoherence in silicon, is also predicted to limit the coherence times of neutral donor nuclear spins in silicon.
GaAs/AlGaAs quantum dots grown by in situ droplet etching and nanohole in-filling offer a combination of strong charge confinement, optical efficiency, and high spatial symmetry advantageous for polarization entanglement and spin-photon interface. Here, we study experimentally electron and nuclear spin properties of such dots. We find nearly vanishing electron g factors (g e < 0.05), providing a potential route for electrically driven spin control schemes. Optical manipulation of the nuclear spin environment is demonstrated with nuclear spin polarization up to 65% achieved. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy reveals two distinct types of quantum dots: with tensile and with compressive strain along the growth axis. In both types of dots, the magnitude of strain b < 0.02% is nearly three orders of magnitude smaller than in self-assembled dots: On the one hand, this provides a route for eliminating a major source of electron spin decoherence arising from nuclear quadrupolar interactions, and on the other hand such strain is sufficient to suppress nuclear spin diffusion leading to a stable nuclear spin bath with nuclear spin lifetimes exceeding 500 s. The spin properties revealed in this work make this new type of quantum dot an attractive alternative to self-assembled dots for the applications in quantum information technologies.
In this theoretical study we qualitatively and quantitatively investigate the electric dipole spin resonance (EDSR) in a single Si/SiGe quantum dot in the presence of a magnetic field gradient, e.g., produced by a ferromagnet. We model a situation in which the control of electron spin states is achieved by applying an oscillatory electric field, inducing real-space oscillations of the electron inside the quantum dot. One of the goals of our study is to present a microscopic theory of valley-dependent g factors in Si/SiGe quantum dots and investigate how valley relaxation combined with a valley-dependent g factor leads to a novel electron spin dephasing mechanism. Furthermore, we discuss the interplay of spin and valley relaxations in Si/SiGe quantum dots. Our findings suggest that the electron spin dephases due to valley relaxation, and are in agreement with recent experimental studies [Nat.
The nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond has attractive properties for a number of quantum technologies that rely on the spin angular momentum of the electron and the nuclei adjacent to the center. The nucleus with the strongest interaction is the 13 C nuclear spin of the first shell. Using this degree of freedom effectively hinges on precise data on the hyperfine interaction between the electronic and the nuclear spin. Here, we present detailed experimental data on this interaction, together with an analysis that yields all parameters of the hyperfine tensor, as well as its orientation with respect to the atomic structure of the center.
We present evidence of near-infrared photoluminescence (PL) signature of nitrogen vacancy centers (N C V Si ) - in silicon carbide (SiC). This center exhibits an S = 1 ground state spin similar to the NV -center in diamond. We have performed photoluminescence excitation measurements at cryogenic temperature and demonstrated efficient photoexcitation of distinct photoluminescence from (N C V Si ) -in 4H -SiC. Furthermore, by correlating the energies of measured zero phonon lines (ZPLs) with theoretical values derived from hybrid density functional theory each of the ZPLs has been associated to the respective occupation of hexagonal (h) and quasicubic (k) lattice sites in close analogy to neutral divacancy centers (V C V Si ) 0 in the same material. Finally, with the appropriate choice of excitation energy we demonstrated the selective excitation of (N C V Si ) -PL with no contamination by (V C V Si ) 0 PL, thereby opening the way towards the optical detection of (N C V Si ) -electron spin resonance.
We demonstrate amplification (and attenuation) of a probe signal by a driven two-level quantum system in the Landau-Zener-Stückelberg-Majorana regime by means of an experiment, in which a superconducting qubit was strongly coupled to a microwave cavity, in a conventional arrangement of circuit quantum electrodynamics. Two different types of flux qubit, specifically a conventional Josephson junctions qubit and a phase-slip qubit, show similar results, namely, lasing at the working points where amplification takes place. The experimental data are explained by the interaction of the probe signal with Rabi-like oscillations. The latter are created by constructive interference of Landau-Zener-Stückelberg-Majorana (LZSM) transitions during the driving period of the qubit. A detailed description of the occurrence of these oscillations and a comparison of obtained data with both analytic and numerical calculations are given.
The outstanding magneto-optical properties of the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond have stimulated the search for similar systems. We show here that NV triplet centers can also be generated in all the main SiC polytypes. We have identified by electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy and first-principles calculations the axial NV -pairs in 3C, 4H , and 6H SiC, showing polytype and lattice site-specific magnetic and optical properties. We demonstrate very efficient room-temperature spin polarization of the ground state upon near infrared optical excitation for the NV center in 3C SiC and axial NV centers in the hexagonal (4H , 6H ) polytypes; the signals of basal pairs are much lower in intensity. Axial NV centers in hexagonal SiC polytypes and thus constitute unidirectional ensembles which may be useful in nanosensing applications.
We recently introduced the idea of s-sourcery [B. Swingle and J. McGreevy
Affleck, Kennedy, Lieb, and Taski (AKLT) constructed an exemplary spin-3/2 valence-bond solid (VBS) state on the hexagonal lattice, which is the ground state of an isotropic quantum antiferromagnet and possesses no spontaneous magnetization but finite correlation length. This is distinct from the Néel ordered state of the spin-3/2 Heisenberg model on the same lattice. Niggemann, Klümper, and Zittartz then generalized the AKLT Hamiltonian to one family invariant under spin rotation about the z axis. The ground states of this family can be parameterized by a single parameter that deforms the AKLT state, and this system exhibits a quantum phase transition between the VBS and Néel phases, as the parameter increases from the AKLT point to large anisotropy. We investigate the opposite regime when the parameter decreases from the AKLT point and find that there appears to be a Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless-like transition from the VBS phase to an XY phase. Such a transition also occurs in the deformation of other types of AKLT states with triplet-bond constructions on the same lattice. However, we do not find such an XY-like phase in the deformed AKLT models on other trivalent lattices, such as square-octagon, cross, and star lattices. On the star lattice, the deformed family of AKLT states remain in the same phase as the isotropic AKLT state throughout the whole region of the parameter. However, for two triplet-bond generalizations, the triplet VBS phase is sandwiched between two ferromagnetic phases (for large and small deformation parameters, respectively), which are characterized by spontaneous magnetizations along different axes. Along the way, we also discuss how various deformed AKLT states can be used for the purpose of universal quantum computation.
Spin-electric interactions and magnetic and magnetoelectric properties of the Dy 4 ring molecular nanocluster are investigated. The effective spin-electric Hamiltonian is derived on a base of developed quantum mechanical model of the cluster spin structure. It is shown that the toroidal moment is a source of the quantum magnetoelectric effect. The dynamics of the toroidal moment (macroscopic quantum tunneling) is also discussed.
Because of its role as a model system with tunable quantum fluctuations and quenched disorder, and the desire for optical control and readout of its states, we have used high-resolution optical absorption spectroscopy to measure the crystal-field excitations for Ho 3+ ions in LiHo x Y 1-x F 4 from the terahertz to visible regimes. We show that many of the excitations yield very narrow lines visibly split even by the nuclear hyperfine interaction, making Ho 3+ in LiHo x Y 1-x F 4 a candidate host for optically addressable electronuclear qubits with quality factors as high as Q = 4.7 × 10 5 , where the higher-lying levels are electronic singlets. Optical transitions in the easily accessible near-and mid-infrared are narrow enough to allow readout of the ground-state electronuclear qubits responsible for the interesting magnetism of LiHo x Y 1-x F 4 . While many of the higher-lying states have been observed previously, we also report here detailed spectra of terahertz excitations. The strengths of the electric and magnetic dipole crystal-field transition lines of five of the lowest excited spin-orbit manifolds of dilute LiYF 4 :Ho 3+ were calculated and compared with measurement. The magnitude of the nuclear hyperfine coupling was used to assign the correct upper and lower states to transition lines.
Antiferromagnetic molecular rings are widely studied both for fundamental quantum-mechanical issues and for technological applications, particularly in the field of quantum information processing. Here we present a detailed first-principles study of two families-purple and green-of {Cr 7 M} antiferromagnetic rings, where M is a divalent transition metal ion (M = Ni 2+ , Mn 2+ , and Zn 2+ ). We employ a recently developed flexible and efficient scheme to build ab initio system-specific Hubbard models. From such many-body models we systematically derive the low-energy effective spin Hamiltonian for the rings. Our approach allows us to calculate isotropic as well as anisotropic terms of the spin Hamiltonian, without any a priori assumption on its form. For each compound we calculate magnetic exchange couplings, zero-field splitting tensors, and gyromagnetic tensors, finding good agreement with experimental results.
Despite extensive search for about a decade, specular Andreev reflection (SAR) has only recently been realized in the bilayer graphene-superconductor interface. The experimental observation of retro to specular Andreev reflection is not only fundamentally important, but also has potential application in quantum computing, etc. Here we have carried out the transport measurements at the van der Waals interface of single-layer graphene and NbSe 2 superconductor. We investigate the Andreev reflection near the Dirac point by measuring the differential conductance as a function of Fermi energy and bias energy. We find that the normalized conductance (G T <Tc /G T >T c ) becomes suppressed as we pass through the Dirac cone, which manifests the transition from retro to nonretro-type Andreev reflection. The suppression indicates the blockage of Andreev reflection beyond a critical angle (θ c ) of the incident electron with respect to the normal between the single-layer graphene and the superconductor junction. However, the observation of SAR was restricted due to the finite Fermi-energy broadening. The results are compared with a theoretical model of the corresponding setup.
Stückelberg interferometry is a phenomenon that has been well established for quantum-mechanical two-level systems. Here, we present classical two-mode interference of a nanomechanical two-mode system, realizing a classical analog of Stückelberg interferometry. Our experiment relies on the coherent energy exchange between two strongly coupled, high-quality factor nanomechanical resonator modes. Furthermore, we discuss an exact theoretical solution for the double-passage Stückelberg problem by expanding the established finite-time Landau-Zener single-passage solution. For the parameter regime explored in the experiment, we find that the Stückelberg return probability in the classical version of the problem formally coincides with the quantum case, which reveals the analogy of the return probabilities in the quantum-mechanical and the classical version of the problem. This result qualifies classical two-mode systems at large to simulate quantum-mechanical interferometry.
SrCoO 2.5 has a long-range oxygen vacancy ordering that makes it a promising energy material and catalyst carrier. The study of its electronic properties is vital for its practical applications. Here, we investigate its electronic behavior and lattice structural evolution under high pressure up to 22 GPa using synchrotron infrared spectroscopy and x-ray diffraction. A clear electronic transition from a semiconducting state to another semiconducting state is observed around 7.3 GPa upon compression, based on infrared results. Detailed structural examination shows that this electronic transition is accompanied by a structural phase transition, which occurs between 5.3 and 8.6 GPa, as confirmed by x-ray diffraction. The band gap reduces by ∼40% at high pressure compared to ambient conditions. This work demonstrates that the oxygen vacancy ordering in SrCoO 2.5 can be sustained up to ∼8.6 GPa and pressure can narrow the band gap, forcing this unique material to enter into another electronic state with a new crystal structure.
We have designed and fabricated a metamaterial consisting of planar metamolecules which exhibit unusual, almost perfect anapole behavior in the sense that the electric dipole radiation is almost canceled by the toroidal dipole one, producing thus an extremely high Q-factor at the resonance frequency. Thus we have demonstrated theoretically and experimentally that metamaterials approaching ideal anapole behavior have very high Q-factor. The size of the system, at the millimeter range, and the parasitic magnetic quadrupole radiation are the factors limiting the size of the Q-factor. In spite of the very low radiation losses the estimated local fields at the metamolecules are extremely high, of the order of 10 4 higher than the external incoming field.
Spins bound to point defects are increasingly viewed as an important resource for solid-state implementations of quantum information and spintronic technologies. In particular, there is a growing interest in the identification of new classes of defect spin that can be controlled optically. Here, we demonstrate ensemble optical spin polarization and optically detected magnetic resonance (ODMR) of the S = 1 electronic ground state of chromium (Cr 4+ ) impurities in silicon carbide (SiC) and gallium nitride (GaN). Spin polarization is made possible by the narrow optical linewidths of these ensembles (<8.5 GHz), which are similar in magnitude to the ground state zero-field spin splitting energies of the ions at liquid helium temperatures. This allows us to optically resolve individual spin sublevels within the ensembles at low magnetic fields using resonant excitation from a cavity-stabilized, narrow-linewidth laser. Additionally, these near-infrared emitters possess exceptionally weak phonon sidebands, ensuring that >73% of the overall optical emission is contained with the defects' zero-phonon lines. These characteristics make this semiconductor-based, transition metal impurity system a promising target for further study in the ongoing effort to integrate optically active quantum states within common optoelectronic materials.
We report T 2 spin coherence times for electronic states localized in Si vacancies in 4H -SiC. Our spin coherence study included two SiC samples that were irradiated with 2 MeV protons at different fluences (10 13 and 10 14 cm -2 ) in order to create samples with unique defect concentrations. Using optically detected magnetic resonance and spin echo, the coherence times for each sample were measured across a range of temperatures from 8 to 295 K. All echo experiments were done at a magnetic field strength of 0.371 T and a microwave frequency of 10.49 GHz. The longest coherence times were obtained at 8 K, being 270 ± 61 μs for the 10 13 cm -2 proton-irradiated sample and 104 ± 17 μs for the 10 14 cm -2 sample. The coherence times for both samples displayed unusual temperature dependencies; in particular, they decreased with temperature until 60 K, then increased until 160 K, then decreased again. This increase between 60 and 160 K is tentatively attributed to a motional Jahn-Teller effect. The consistently longer lifetimes for the 10 13 cm -2 sample suggest that a significant source of the spin dephasing can be attributed to dipole-dipole interactions between Si vacancies or with other defects produced by the proton irradiation. The lack of a simple exponential decay for our 10 14 cm -2 sample indicates an inhomogeneous distribution of defect spins.
We report the first observation of Rabi oscillations in the spin-7/2 ensemble of trivalent gadolinium ions hosted in CaWO 4 single crystal. A number of transitions within the lowest electronic multiplet 8 S 7/2 of Gd 3+ ion are studied using a combination of continuous-wave and pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy. The corresponding Rabi damping curves and the spin coherence times are detected at varying strengths of the microwave field. These data are well reproduced by a theoretical model which accounts for the intrinsic inhomogeneity of the microwave field within the microwave resonator and the magnetic dipole interactions in the diluted spin ensemble. The results indicate that the studied 8-level ground manifold of Gd 3+ ion can represent an effective three-qubit quantum system.
We show that implementations for quantum sensing with exceptional sensitivity and spatial resolution can be made using spin-3 2 semiconductor defect states. We illustrate this using the silicon monovacancy deep center in hexagonal SiC based on our rigorous derivation of this defect's ground state and of its electronic and optical properties. For a single V - Si defect, we obtain magnetic field sensitivities capable of detecting individual nuclear magnetic moments. We also show that its zero-field splitting has an exceptional strain and temperature sensitivity within the technologically desirable near-infrared window of biological systems. The concepts and sensing schemes developed here are applicable to other point defects with half spin multiplet (S 3 2 ) configurations.
We clarify the topology of 3 P 2 superfluids which are expected to be realized in the inner cores of neutron stars and cubic odd-parity superconductors. 3 P 2 phases include uniaxial/biaxial nematic phases and nonunitary ferromagnetic and cyclic phases. Here, we show that all the phases are accompanied by different types of topologically protected gapless fermions: surface Majorana fermions in nematic phases and a quartet of (single) itinerant Majorana fermions in the cyclic (ferromagnetic) phase. Using the superfluid Fermi liquid theory, we also demonstrate that dihedral-two and -four biaxial nematic phases are thermodynamically favored in the weak coupling limit under a magnetic field. It is shown that the tricritical point exists on the phase boundary between these two phases and may be realized in the core of realistic magnetars. We unveil the intertwining of symmetry and topology behind the mass acquisition of surface Majorana fermions in nematic phases.
We theoretically study transport properties of voltage-biased one-dimensional superconductor-normal metalsuperconductor tunnel junctions with arbitrary junction transparency where the superconductors can have trivial or nontrivial topology. Motivated by recent experimental efforts on Majorana properties of superconductorsemiconductor hybrid systems, we consider two explicit models for topological superconductors: (i) spinful pwave, and (ii) spin-split spin-orbit-coupled s-wave. We provide a comprehensive analysis of the zero-temperature dc current I and differential conductance dI/dV of voltage-biased junctions with or without Majorana zero modes (MZMs). The presence of an MZM necessarily gives rise to two tunneling conductance peaks at voltages eV = ± lead , i.e., the voltage at which the superconducting gap edge of the lead aligns with the MZM. We find that the MZM conductance peak probed by a superconducting lead without a BCS singularity has a nonuniversal value, which decreases with decreasing junction transparency. This is in contrast to the MZM tunneling conductance measured by a superconducting lead with a BCS singularity, where the conductance peak in the tunneling limit takes the quantized value G M = (4π )2e 2 /h independent of the junction transparency. We also discuss the "subharmonic gap structure", a consequence of multiple Andreev reflections, in the presence and absence of MZMs. Finally, we show that for finite-energy Andreev bound states (ABSs), the conductance peaks shift away from the gap bias voltage eV = ± lead to a larger value set by the ABSs energy. Our work should have important implications for the extensive current experimental efforts toward creating topological superconductivity and MZMs in semiconductor nanowires proximity coupled to ordinary s-wave superconductors.
Similar to nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond and impurity atoms in silicon, interstitial gallium deep paramagnetic centers in GaAsN have been proven to have useful characteristics for the development of spintronic devices. Among other interesting properties, under circularly polarized light, gallium centers act as spin filters that dynamically polarize free and bound electrons reaching record spin polarizations (close to 100%). Furthermore, the recent observation of the amplification of the spin filtering effect under a Faraday configuration magnetic field has suggested that the hyperfine interaction that couples bound electrons and nuclei permits the optical manipulation of the nuclear spin polarization. Even though the mechanisms behind the nuclear spin polarization in gallium centers are fairly well understood, the origin of nuclear spin relaxation and the formation of an Overhauser-like magnetic field remain elusive. In this work we develop a model based on the master equation approach to describe the evolution of electronic and nuclear spin polarizations of gallium centers interacting with free electrons and holes. Our results are in good agreement with existing experimental observations. In particular, we are able to reproduce the amplification of the spin filtering effect under a circularly polarized excitation in a Faraday configuration magnetic field. In regard to the nuclear spin relaxation, the roles of nuclear dipolar and quadrupolar interactions are discussed. Our findings show that, besides the hyperfine interaction, the spin relaxation mechanisms are key to understand the amplification of the spin filtering effect and the appearance of the Overhauser-like magnetic field. To gain a deeper insight in the interplay of the hyperfine interaction and the relaxation mechanisms, we have also performed calculations in the pulsed excitation regime. Our model's results allow us to propose an experimental protocol based on time-resolved spectroscopy. It consists of a pump-probe photoluminescence scheme with the detection and the tracing of the electron-nucleus flip-flops through photoluminescence measurements.
Monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) feature a valley degree of freedom, giant spin-orbit coupling, and spin-valley locking. These exotic natures have stimulated efforts of exploring potential applications in conceptual spintronics, valleytronics, and quantum computing. Among all the exotic directions, a long relaxation time of spin and/or valley polarization is critical. The present valley dynamics studies concentrate on the band edge excitons which predominate the optical response due to an enhanced Coulomb interaction in two dimensions. The valley relaxation time of free carriers remains ambiguous. In this Rapid Communication, we use time-resolved Kerr rotation spectroscopy to probe the valley dynamics of excitons and free carriers in monolayer tungsten diselenide. The valley relaxation time of free carriers is found around 2 ns at 70 K, about three orders of magnitude longer than the excitons of about 2 ps, and 15 times larger than that of trions (130 ps). The extended valley relaxation time of free carriers evidences that an exchange interaction dominates the valley relaxation in optical excitations. The pump-probe spectroscopy also reveals an exciton binding energy of 0.60 eV in monolayer WSe 2 .
Hybrid structures of quantum spin Hall insulators (QSHIs) and superconductors (Ss) present a unique opportunity to access dissipationless topological states of matter, which, however, is frequently hindered by the lack of control over the spin polarization in QSHIs. We propose a very efficient spin-polarization mechanism based on the magnetoelectric (Edelstein) effect in superconducting QSHI structures. It acts akin to the Zeeman splitting in an external magnetic field, but with an effective g factor of order of 1000, resulting in an unprecedented spin splitting effect. It allows a magnetic control of the QSHI/S hybrids without destroying superconductivity.
We define single electron spin qubits in a silicon metal-oxide-semiconductor double quantum dot system. By mapping the qubit resonance frequency as a function of a gate-induced electric field, the spectrum reveals an anticrossing that is consistent with an intervalley spin-orbit coupling. We fit the data from which we extract an intervalley coupling strength of 43 MHz. In addition, we observe a narrow resonance near the primary qubit resonance when we operate the device in the (1,1) charge configuration. The experimental data are consistent with a simulation involving two weakly exchanged-coupled spins with a Zeeman energy difference of 1 MHz, of the same order as the Rabi frequency. We conclude that the narrow resonance is the result of driven transitions between the T -and T + triplet states, using an electron spin resonance signal of frequency located halfway between the resonance frequencies of the two individual spins. The findings presented here offer an alternative method of implementing two-qubit gates, of relevance to the operation of larger-scale spin qubit systems.
We consider two distant spin-1 2 particles (or qubits) and a number of interacting objects, all with the same value S 1 of their respective spin, distributed on a one-dimensional lattice (or large-S spin chain). The quantum states of the chain are constructed by linearly combining tensor products of single-spin coherent states, whose evolution is determined accordingly, i.e., via classical-like equations of motions. We show that the quantum superposition of the above product states resulting from a local interaction between the first qubit and one spin of the chain evolves so that the second qubit, after having itself interacted with another spin of the chain, can be entangled with the first qubit. Obtaining such an outcome does not imply imposing constraints on the length of the chain or the distance between the qubits, which demonstrates the possibility of generating quantum correlations at a distance by means of a macroscopic system, as far as local interactions with just a few of its components are feasible.
We analyze the formation of Majorana zero modes at the edge of a two-dimensional topological superconductor.
A major challenge in creating a quantum computer is to find a quantum system that can be used to implement the qubits. For this purpose, deep centers are prominent candidates, and ab initio calculations are one of the most important tools to theoretically study their properties. However, these calculations are highly involved, due to the large supercell needed, and the computational cost can be even larger when one goes beyond the Kohn-Sham scheme to correct the band gap problem and achieve good accuracy. In this work, we present a method that overcomes these problems and provides the optical transition energies as a difference of Kohn-Sham eigenvalues; even more, provides a complete and accurate band structure of the defects in a semiconductor. Despite the original motivations, the presented methodology is a general procedure, which can be used to systematically study the optical transitions between localized levels within the band gap of any system. The method is an extension of the low-cost and parameter-free DFT-1/2 approximate quasiparticle correction, and allows it to be applied in the study of complex defects. As a benchmark, we apply the method to the NV -center in diamond. The agreement with experiments is remarkable, with an accuracy of 0.1 eV. The band structure agrees with the expected qualitative features of this system, and thus provides a good intuitive physical picture by itself.
Point defects in solids may realize solid state quantum bits. The spin-orbit coupling in these point defects plays a key role in the magneto-optical properties that determine the conditions of quantum bit operation. However, experimental data and methods do not directly yield these highly important data, particularly for such complex systems where the dynamic Jahn-Teller (DJT) effect damps the spin-orbit interaction. Here, we show for an exemplary quantum bit, the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond, that ab initio supercell density functional theory provides a quantitative prediction for the spin-orbit coupling damped by DJT. We show that DJT is responsible for the multiple intersystem crossing rates of the NV center at cryogenic temperatures. Our results pave the way toward optimizing solid state quantum bits for quantum information processing and metrology applications.
Fluorescent paramagnetic defects in solids have become attractive systems for quantum information processing in recent years. One of the leading contenders is the negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) defect in diamond with visible emission, but an alternative solution in a technologically mature host is an immediate quest for many applications in this field. It has been recently found that various polytypes of silicon carbide (SiC), that are standard semiconductors with wafer scale technology, can host a NV defect that could be an alternative qubit candidate with emission in the near infrared region. However, there is much less known about this defect than its counterpart in diamond. The inequivalent sites within a polytype and the polytype variations offer a family of NV defects. However, there is an insufficient knowledge on the magneto-optical properties of these configurations.
We present a theoretical investigation of anisotropic g-factor tensors of single holes confined in droplet epitaxial GaAs/AlGaAs quantum dots under electrical and mechanical controls using the gauge-invariant discretization method within the framework of four-band Luttinger-Kohn k • p theory. We reveal an intrinsic obstacle to realize the electrical sign reversal of the hole g-factors, being a key condition required for a full spin control in the scheme of g-tensor modulation, for the quantum dots solely with electrical bias control. Constructively, our studies show that, besides electrical gating, slightly stressing an inherently unstrained droplet epitaxial GaAs/AlGaAs quantum dot can offset the transverse hole g-factor to be nearly zero and make the electrical sign reversal of the hole g-factors feasible.
We study the dynamics of a pulse-gated semiconductor double-quantum-dot qubit. In our experiments, the qubit coherence times are relatively long, but the visibility of the quantum oscillations is low. We show that these observations are consistent with a theory that incorporates decoherence arising from charge noise that gives rise to detuning fluctuations of the double dot. Because effects from charge noise are largest near the singlet-triplet avoided level crossing, the visibility of the oscillations is low when the singlet-triplet avoided level crossing occurs in the vicinity of the charge degeneracy point crossed during the manipulation, but there is only modest dephasing at the large detuning value at which the quantum phase accumulates. This theory agrees well with experimental data and predicts that the visibility can be increased greatly by appropriate tuning of the interdot tunneling rate.
We propose a nanodevice based on a typical planar semiconductor heterostructure with lateral confinement potential created by voltages applied to local gates. We show how to obtain near parabolical confinement along the nanodevice, and how to use coherent states of the harmonic oscillator for spatial separation of electron densities corresponding to opposite spin directions. In such a way, an entangled state of Schrödinger's cat type is created. We have performed simulations of a realistic nanodevice model by numerically solving the time-dependent Schrödinger equation together with simultaneous tracking of the controllable confinement potential via solution of the Poisson's equation at every time step.
The identification of a microscopic configuration of point defects acting as quantum bits is a key step in the advance of quantum information processing and sensing. Among the numerous candidates, silicon-vacancy related centers in silicon carbide (SiC) have shown remarkable properties owing to their particular spin-3/2 ground and excited states. Although, these centers were observed decades ago, two competing models, the isolated negatively charged silicon vacancy and the complex of negatively charged silicon vacancy and neutral carbon vacancy [Phys. Rev. Lett. 115, 247602 (2015)], are still argued as an origin. By means of high-precision first-principles calculations and high-resolution electron spin resonance measurements, we here unambiguously identify the Si-vacancy related qubits in hexagonal SiC as isolated negatively charged silicon vacancies. Moreover, we identify the Si-vacancy qubit configurations that provide room-temperature optical readout.
Starting from high-level ab initio calculations, we present ultrafast spin dynamical effects and all-spin-based nanologic elements on a Ni 4 cluster. The predominant underlying mechanisms for our operations are optically induced coherent processes, the optimized parameters of which are obtained from a dedicated genetic algorithm search. The geometry of the cluster exhibits a high degree of spin localization. Thus, maneuvering the spin localizations we construct a pure-spin OR gate. Additionally, functional intramolecular cooperative effects such as spin bifurcation and spin merging are introduced that facilitate the setup of the latter. In the which-path information effect the phase of the final spin state is exploited to reveal the path traveled by the spin in a two-step spin transfer scenario. This is beneficial for both classical and quantum computations on small spatial and temporal scales.
After decades of progress and effort, obtaining a phase diagram for a strongly correlated topological system still remains a challenge. Although in principle one could turn to Wilson loops and long-range entanglement, evaluating these nonlocal observables at many points in phase space can be prohibitively costly. With growing excitement over topological quantum computation comes the need for an efficient approach for obtaining topological phase diagrams. Here we turn to machine learning using quantum loop topography (QLT), a notion we have recently introduced. Specifically, we propose a construction of QLT that is sensitive to quasiparticle statistics. We then use mutual statistics between the spinons and visons to detect a Z 2 quantum spin liquid in a multiparameter phase space. We successfully obtain the quantum phase boundary between the topological and trivial phases using a simple feed-forward neural network. Furthermore, we demonstrate advantages of our approach for the evaluation of phase diagrams relating to speed and storage. Such statistics-based machine learning of topological phases opens new efficient routes to studying topological phase diagrams in strongly correlated systems.
The crystal structure of the mineral boleite contains clusters of 24 S = 1/2 Cu 2+ ions that have the shape of a truncated cube formed of eight trimers connected by edges. Susceptibility measurements and exact diagonalization calculations suggest that there are strong antiferromagnetic intratrimer interactions, such that effective S = 1/2 degrees of freedom emerge on the trimers below T 100 K. Weaker intertrimer interactions lead to the formation of a singlet ground state for these effective spins at T 5 K. The clusters in boleite offer a situation similar to single molecule magnetism, accessible to both experiment and numerics, in which the interplay of quantum spins, geometric frustration, spin entanglement, and mesoscopic system size can be studied.
The spin-1 2 Heisenberg model on the kagome lattice, which is closely realized in layered Mott insulators such as ZnCu 3 (OH) 6 Cl 2 , is one of the oldest and most enigmatic spin-1 2 lattice models. While the numerical evidence has accumulated in favor of a quantum spin liquid, the debate is still open as to whether it is a Z 2 spin liquid with very short-range correlations (some kind of resonating valence bond spin liquid), or an algebraic spin liquid with power-law correlations. To address this issue, we have pushed the program started by Rokhsar and Kivelson in their derivation of the effective quantum dimer model description of Heisenberg models to unprecedented accuracy for the spin-1 2 kagome, by including all the most important virtual singlet contributions on top of the orthogonalization of the nearest-neighbor valence bond singlet basis. Quite remarkably, the resulting picture is a competition between a Z 2 spin liquid and a diamond valence bond crystal with a 12-site unit cell, as in the density-matrix renormalization group simulations of Yan et al. Furthermore, we found that, on cylinders of finite diameter d, there is a transition between the Z 2 spin liquid at small d and the diamond valence bond crystal at large d, the prediction of the present microscopic description for the two-dimensional lattice. These results show that, if the ground state of the spin-1 2 kagome antiferromagnet can be described by nearest-neighbor singlet dimers, it is a diamond valence bond crystal, and, a contrario, that, if the system is a quantum spin liquid, it has to involve long-range singlets, consistent with the algebraic spin liquid scenario.
An idea of employing the Landau-Zener-Stückelberg-Majorana dynamics to flip a spin of a single ground state hole is introduced and explored by a time-dependent simulation. This configuration interaction study considers a hole confined in a quantum molecule formed in an InSb 111 quantum wire by application of an electrostatic potential. An up-down spin-mixing avoided crossing is formed by nonaxial terms in the Kohn-Luttinger Hamiltonian and the Dresselhaus spin-orbit one. Manipulation of the system is possible by the dynamic change of an external vertical electric field, which enables the consecutive driving of the hole through two anticrossings. Moreover, a simple model of the power-law-type noise that impedes precise electric control of the system is included in the form of random telegraph noise to estimate the limitations of the working conditions. We show that in principle the process is possible, but it requires precise control of the parameters of the driving impulse.
The investigation and control of quantum degrees of freedom (DoFs) of carriers lie at the heart of condensedmatter physics and next-generation electronics/optoelectronics. van der Waals heterostructures stacked from distinct two-dimensional (2D) crystals offer an unprecedented platform for combining the superior properties of individual 2D materials and manipulating spin, layer, and valley DoFs. MoS 2 /graphene heterostructures, harboring prominent spin-transport properties of graphene, giant spin-orbit coupling, and spin-valley polarization of MoS 2 , are predicted as a perfect venue for optospintronics. Here, we report the epitaxial growth of commensurate MoS 2 on graphene with high quality by chemical vapor deposition, and demonstrate robust temperature-independent spin-valley polarization at off-resonant excitation. We further show that the helicity of B exciton is larger than that of A exciton, allowing the manipulation of spin bits in the commensurate heterostructures by both optical helicity and wavelength. Our results open a window for controlling spin DoF by light and pave a way for taking spin qubits as information carriers in the next-generation valley-controlled optospintronics.
A three-dimensional Dirac semimetal has bulk Dirac cones in all three momentum directions and Fermi arc like surface states, and can be converted into a Weyl semimetal by breaking time-reversal symmetry. However, the highly conductive bulk state usually hides the electronic transport from the surface state in Dirac semimetal. Here, we demonstrate the supercurrent carried by bulk and surface states in Nb-Cd 3 As 2 nanowire-Nb short and long junctions, respectively. For the ∼1-μm-long junction, the Fabry-Pérot interferences-induced oscillations of the critical supercurrent are observed, suggesting the ballistic transport of the surface states carried supercurrent, where the bulk states are decoherent and the topologically protected surface states still stay coherent. Moreover, a superconducting dome is observed in the long junction, which is attributed to the enhanced dephasing from the interaction between surface and bulk states as tuning gate voltage to increase the carrier density. The superconductivity of topological semimetal nanowire is promising for braiding of Majorana fermions toward topological quantum computing.
In this work we present a detailed NMR and μ + SR investigation of the spin dynamics in the new hydrated sodium salt containing the single-ion magnet [Er(W 5 O 18 ) 2 ] 9-. The 1 H NMR absorption spectra at various applied magnetic fields present a line broadening on decreasing temperature which indicates a progressive spin freezing of the single-molecule magnetic moments. The onset of quasistatic local magnetic fields, due to spin freezing, is observed also in the muon relaxation curves at low temperature. Both techniques yield a local field distribution of the order of 0.1-0.2 T, which appears to be of dipolar origin. On decreasing the temperature, a gradual loss of the 1 H NMR signal intensity is observed, a phenomenon known as wipe-out effect. The effect is analyzed quantitatively on the basis of a simple model which relies on the enhancement of the NMR spin-spin, T -1 2 , relaxation rate due to the slowing down of the magnetic fluctuations. Measurements of spin-lattice relaxation rate T -1 1 for 1 H NMR and of the muon longitudinal relaxation rate λ show an increase as the temperature is lowered. However, while for the NMR case the signal is lost before reaching the very slow fluctuation region, the muon spin-lattice relaxation λ can be followed until very low temperatures and the characteristic maximum, reached when the electronic spin fluctuation frequency becomes of the order of the muon Larmor frequency, can be observed. At high temperatures, the data can be well reproduced with a simple model based on a single correlation time τ = τ 0 exp( /T) for the magnetic fluctuations. However, to fit the relaxation data for both NMR and μ + SR over the whole temperature and magnetic field range, one has to use a more detailed model that takes into account spin-phonon transitions among the Er 3+ magnetic sublevels. A good agreement for both proton NMR and μ + SR relaxation is obtained, which confirms the validity of the energy level scheme previously calculated from an effective crystal field Hamiltonian.
Topological superconductor (TSC) hosting Majorana fermions has been established as a milestone that may shift our scientific trajectory from research to applications in topological quantum computing. Recently, superconducting Pd-Bi binaries have attracted great attention as a possible medium for the TSC phase as a result of their large spin-orbit coupling strength. Here, we report a systematic high-resolution angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) study on the normal state electronic structure of superconducting α-PdBi 2 (T c = 1.7 K). Our results show the presence of Dirac states at higher-binding energy with the location of the Dirac point at 1.26 eV below the chemical potential at the zone center. Furthermore, the ARPES data indicate multiple band crossings at the chemical potential, consistent with the metallic behavior of α-PdBi 2 . Our detailed experimental studies are complemented by first-principles calculations, which reveal the presence of surface Rashba states residing in the vicinity of the chemical potential. The obtained results provide an opportunity to investigate the relationship between superconductivity, topology, and the Majorana fermion, as well as explore pathways to possible future platforms for topological quantum computing.
The aim of the presented research is to design a nanodevice, based on a MoS 2 monolayer, performing operations on a well-defined valley qubit. We show how to confine an electron in a gate-induced quantum dot within the monolayer, and to perform the NOT operation on its valley degree of freedom. The operations are carried out all electrically via modulation of the confinement potential by oscillating voltages applied to the local gates. Such quantum dot structure is modeled realistically. Through these simulations we investigate the possibility of realization of a valley qubit in analogy with a realization of the spin qubit. We accurately model the potential inside the nanodevice accounting for proper boundary conditions on the gates and space-dependent materials permittivity by solving the generalized Poisson's equation. The time evolution of the system is supported by realistic self-consistent Poisson-Schrödinger tight-binding calculations. The tight-binding calculations are further confirmed by simulations within the effective continuum model.
There is a continuous search for solid state spin qubits operating at room temperature with excitation in the infrared communication bandwidth. Recently, we have introduced the photoelectric detection of magnetic resonance (PDMR) to read the electron spin state of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond, a technique which is promising for applications in quantum information technology. By measuring the photoionization spectra on a diamond crystal, we found two ionization thresholds of unknown origin. On the same sample we also observed absorption and photoluminescence signatures that were identified in the literature as Ni-associated defects. We performed ab initio calculations of the photoionization cross section of the nickel split-vacancy complex (NiV) and N-related defects in their relevant charge states and fitted the concentration of these defects to the measured photocurrent spectrum, which led to a surprising match between experimental and calculated spectra. This study enabled us to identify the two unknown ionization thresholds with the two acceptor levels of NiV. Because the excitation of NiV is in the infrared, the photocurrent detected from the paramagnetic NiV color centers is a promising way towards the design of electrically readout qubits.
Recent experimental evidences point to rotation symmetry-breaking superconductivity in doped Bi 2 Se 3 , where the relevant order parameter belongs to a two-component odd-parity representation E u of the crystal point group. The E u channel admits two possible phases, the nematic phase, that well explains the reported rotation symmetry breaking, and the chiral phase, that breaks time-reversal symmetry. In weakly anisotropic three-dimensional (3D) systems the nematic phase is the stable one. We study the stability of the nematic phase versus the chiral phase as a function of the anisotropy of the Fermi surface and the thickness of the sample and show that by increasing the 2D character of the Fermi surface or by reducing the number of layers in thin slabs the chiral phases is favored. For the extreme 2D limit composed by a single layer of Bi 2 Se 3 the chiral phase is always the stable one and the system hosts two chiral Majorana modes flowing at the boundary of the system.
Rare-earth ions in crystals are a proven solid-state platform for quantum technologies in the ensemble regime and attractive for new opportunities at the single-ion level. Among the trivalent rare earths, 171 Yb 3+ is unique in that it possesses a single 4f excited-state manifold and is the only paramagnetic isotope with a nuclear spin of 1/2. In this work, we present measurements of the optical and spin properties of 171 Yb 3+ :YVO 4 to assess whether this distinct energy-level structure can be harnessed for quantum interfaces. The material was found to possess large optical absorption compared to other rare-earth-doped crystals owing to the combination of narrow inhomogeneous broadening and a large transition oscillator strength. In moderate magnetic fields, we measure optical linewidths less than 3 kHz and nuclear spin linewidths less than 50 Hz. We characterize the excited-state hyperfine and Zeeman interactions in this system, which enables the engineering of a system and demonstration of alloptical coherent control over the nuclear-spin ensemble. Given these properties, 171 Yb 3+ :YVO 4 has significant potential for building quantum interfaces such as ensemble-based memories, microwave-to-optical transducers, and optically addressable single rare-earth-ion spin qubits.
Silicon-vacancy (SiV) center in diamond is a photoluminescence (PL) center with a characteristic zero-phonon line energy at 1.681 eV that acts as a solid-state single-photon source and, potentially, as a quantum bit. The majority of the luminescence intensity appears in the zero-phonon line; nevertheless, about 30% of the intensity manifests in the phonon sideband. Since phonons play an essential role in the operation of this system, it is of importance to understand the vibrational properties of the SiV center in detail. To this end, we carry out density functional theory calculations of dilute SiV centers by embedding the defect in supercells of a size of a few thousand atoms. We find that there exist two well-pronounced quasilocal vibrational modes (resonances) with A 2u and E u symmetries, corresponding to the vibration of the Si atom along and perpendicular to the defect symmetry axis, respectively. Isotopic shifts of these modes explain the isotopic shifts of prominent vibronic features in the experimental SiV PL spectrum. Moreover, calculations show that the vibrational frequency of the A 2u mode increases by about 30% in the excited state with respect to the ground state, while the frequency of the E u mode increases by about 5%. These changes explain experimentally observed isotopic shifts of the zero-phonon-line energy. We also emphasize possible dangers of extracting isotopic shifts of vibrational resonances from finite-size supercell calculations, and instead propose a method to do this correctly.
This work reports the measurement of electron g-factor anisotropy (| g| = |g 001g 1 10 |) for phosphorous donor qubits in strained silicon (sSi = Si/Si 1-x Ge x ) environments. Multimillion-atom tight-binding simulations are performed to understand the measured decrease in | g| as a function of x, which is attributed to a reduction in the interface-related anisotropy. For x < 7%, the variation in | g| is linear and can be described by η x x, where η x ≈ 1.62×10 -3 . At x = 20%, the measured | g| is 1.2 ± 0.04×10 -3 , which is in good agreement with the computed value of 1×10 -3 . When strain and electric fields are applied simultaneously, the strain effect is predicted to play a dominant role on | g|. Our results provide useful insights on the spin properties of sSi:P for spin qubits, and more generally for devices in spintronics and valleytronics areas of research.
The Kitaev model of spin-1/2 on a honeycomb lattice supports degenerate topological ground states and may be useful in topological quantum computation. Na 2 IrO 3 with a honeycomb lattice of Ir ions has been extensively studied as a candidate for the realization of this model, due to the effective J eff = 1/2 low-energy excitations produced by the spin-orbit and crystal-field effect. As the eventual realization of the Kitaev model has remained evasive, it is highly desirable and challenging to tune the candidate materials toward such an end. It is well known that external pressure often leads to dramatic changes in the geometric and electronic structure of materials. In this Rapid Communication, the high-pressure phase diagram of Na 2 IrO 3 is examined by first-principles calculations. It is found that Na 2 IrO 3 undergoes a sequence of structural and magnetic phase transitions, from a magnetically ordered phase with space group C2/m to two bond-ordered nonmagnetic phases. The low-energy excitations in these high-pressure phases can be well described by the J eff = 1/2 states.
Defect engineering in wide-gap semiconductors is important in controlling the performance of single-photon emitter devices. The effective incorporation of defects depends strongly on the ability to control their formation and location, as well as to mitigate attendant damage to the material. In this study, we combine density functional theory, molecular dyamics (MD), and kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) simulations to study the energetics and kinetics of the silicon monovacancy V Si and related defects in 4H -SiC. We obtain the defect formation energy for V Si in various charge states and use MD simulations to model the ion implantation process for creating defects. We also study the effects of high-temperature annealing on defect position and stability using KMC and analytical models. Using a larger (480-atom) supercell than previous studies, we obtain the temperature-dependent diffusivity of V Si in various charge states and find significantly lower barriers to diffusion than previous estimates. In addition, we examine the recombination with interstitial Si and conversion of V Si into C Si V C during annealing and propose methods for using strain to reduce changes in defect concentrations. Our results provide guidance for experimental efforts to control the position and density of V Si defects within devices, helping to realize their potential as solid-state qubits.
The understanding of weak measurements and interaction-free measurements has greatly expanded the conceptual and experimental toolbox to explore the quantum world. Here we demonstrate single-shot variablestrength weak measurements of the electron and nuclear spin states of a 31 P single-atom donor in silicon. We first show how the partial collapse of the nuclear spin due to measurement can be used to coherently rotate the spin to a desired pure state. We explicitly demonstrate that phase coherence is preserved with high fidelity throughout multiple sequential single-shot weak measurements and that the partial state collapse can be reversed. Second, we use the relation between measurement strength and perturbation of the nuclear state as a physical meter to extract the tunnel rates between the 31 P donor and a nearby electron reservoir from data conditioned on observing no tunneling events. Our experiments open avenues to measurement-based state preparation, steering and feedback protocols for spin systems in the solid state, and highlight the fundamental connection between information gain and state modification in quantum mechanics.
We discuss the modeling of the electrical manipulation of spin qubits in the linear-response regime where the Rabi frequency is proportional to the magnetic field and to the radio-frequency electric field excitation. We show that the Rabi frequency can be obtained from a generalized g-tensor magnetic resonance formula featuring a g matrix and its derivative g with respect to the electric field (or gate voltage) as inputs. These matrices can be easily calculated from the wave functions of the qubit at zero magnetic field. The g-matrix formalism therefore provides the complete dependence of the Larmor and Rabi frequencies on the orientation of the magnetic field at very low computational cost. It also provides a compact model for the control of the qubit and a simple framework for the analysis of the effects of symmetries on the anisotropy of the Larmor and Rabi frequencies. The g-matrix formalism applies to a wide variety of electron and hole qubits, and we focus on a hole qubit in a silicon-on-insulator nanowire as an illustration. We show that the Rabi frequency of this qubit shows a complex dependence on the orientation of the magnetic field and on the gate voltages that control the symmetry of the hole wave functions. We point out that the qubit may be advantageously switched between two bias points, one where it can be manipulated efficiently, and one where it is largely decoupled from the gate field but presumably longer lived. We also discuss the role of residual strains in such devices in relation to recent experiments.
We have investigated the optical properties of the nitrogen vacancy (NV) -center in 3C-SiC to determine the photoluminscence zero phonon line (ZPL) associated with the 3 E → 3 A 2 intracenter transition. Combining electron paramagnetic resonance and photoluminescence spectroscopy, we show that the NV -center in 3C-SiC has a ZPL line at 1.468 μm in excellent agreement with theoretical predictions. The ZPL line can be observed up to T = 100 K. The negatively charged NV center in 3C-SiC is the structural isomorphe of the NV center in diamond and has equally a spin S = 1 ground state and a spin S = 1 excited state, long spin lattice relaxation times and presents optically induced groudstate spin polarization. These properties make it already a strong competitor to the NV center in diamond, but as its optical domain is shifted in the near infrared at 1.5 μm, the NV center in 3C-SiC is compatible with quantum photonic networks and silicon based microelectronics.
We theoretically analyze the errors in one-and two-qubit gates in SiMOS and Si/SiGe spin qubit experiments and present a pulse sequence which can suppress the errors in exchange coupling due to charge noise using ideal local rotations. In practice, the overall fidelity of the pulse sequence will be limited only by the quality of the single-qubit gates available: The C-phase infidelity comes out to be ≈2.5× the infidelity of the single-qubit operations. Based on experimental data, we model the errors and show that C-phase gate infidelities can be suppressed by two orders in magnitude. Our pulse sequence is simple and we expect an experimental implementation would be relatively straightforward. We also evaluate the performance of this gate against 1/f noise. Assuming a soft ultraviolet cutoff, we show that the pulse sequence designed for quasistatic noise still performs well when the cutoff occurs below ∼1 MHz with experimentally achievable one-qubit Rabi frequencies, suppressing the infidelity by an order of magnitude compared to the existing direct adiabatic protocol. We also analyze the effects of nonadiabaticity during finite rise periods and find that adiabaticity is not a limitation for the current values of exchange coupling.
The fine-structure splitting in zero magnetic field allows one to access the coherent control and manipulation of polarized spin states. Here the zero-field splitting (ZFS) of the S = 3/2 silicon vacancy-related centers in 6H-SiC is explored by means of electron paramagnetic resonance and electron nuclear double resonance techniques, combined with first-principle calculations. We show that the centers not only possess significantly different absolute values of ZFS, but they also differ in their sign. This diversity is rationalized by a flattened/elongated character of their spin-density distribution, potentially alters spin-photon entanglement, and suggests these centers for qubits in the upcoming technology of quantum communication and quantum-information processing.
Parafermions are emergent excitations which generalize Majorana fermions and are potentially relevant to topological quantum computation. Using the concept of Fock parafermions, we present a mapping between lattice Z 4 parafermions and lattice spin-1/2 fermions which preserves the locality of operators with Z 4 symmetry. Based on this mapping, we construct an exactly solvable, local, and interacting one-dimensional fermionic Hamiltonian which hosts zero-energy modes obeying parafermionic algebra. We numerically show that this parafermionic phase remains stable in a wide range of parameters, and discuss its signatures in the fermionic spectral function.
Optical charge state switching was previously observed in photoluminescence experiments for the divacancy defect in 4H-SiC. The participating dark charge state could not be identified with certainty. We use constrained density-functional theory to investigate the mechanism of charge state conversion from the bright neutral charge state of the divacancy defect to the positive and negative charge states including corresponding recovery of the neutral charge state. While we can confirm that the positive charge state is dark, we do not find evidence that the negative charge state is dark. We compute similar absorption energies required for conversion of the neutral defect to both charge states. However, the formation of the positive charge state requires a series of excitations involving a 2-photon excitation, while the creation of the negative charge state is achieved through a single 2-photon process. Calculated absorption energies for the recovery of the neutral defect from the positive charge state fit the experimental value better than those from the negative charge state. Defect formation energies as a function of the Fermi energy show a very small Fermi energy range in which the negative charge state is most stable, while the positive charge state exhibits a wide stability range. Overall, our computational results give more support to the identification of the dark charge state as the positive over the negative charge state in the mechanism of optical charge state switching.
We show that electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) tagged high resolution photoexcitation spectroscopy is a powerful method for the correlation of zero phonon photoluminescence spectra with atomic point defects. Applied to the case of NV centers in 4H -SiC it allows to associate the photoluminescence zero phonon lines (ZPL) at 1243, 1223, 1180, and 1176 nm with the (hk, kk, hh, kh) configurations of the NV -centers in this material. These results lead to a revision of a previous tentative assignment. Contrary to theoretical predictions, we find that the NV centers in 4H -SiC show a negligible Franck-Condon shift as their ZPL absorption lines are resonant with the ZPL emission lines. The high subnanometer energy resolution of this technique allows us further to resolve additional fine-structure of the ZPL lines of the axial NV centers which show a doublet structure with a splitting of 0.8 nm. Our results confirm that NV centers in 4H -SiC provide strong competitors for sensing and qubit application due to the shift of their optical transitions into the technology compatible near-infrared region and the superior material properties of SiC. Given that single center spin readout will be realized, they are suitable for scalable nanophotonic devices compatible with optical communication network.
Exchange-only spin qubits hosted in 28 Si-based triple quantum dots do not suffer from decoherence caused by randomly fluctuating nuclear-spin ensembles and can be relatively robust against electrical noise when operated at a sweet spot. Remaining sources of decoherence are qubit relaxation, leakage out of the qubit subspace, and dephasing due to residual effects of charge noise, the latter two of which are the focus of this work. We investigate spin-orbit-mediated leakage rates to the three-spin ground state accompanied by virtual (i) tunneling, (ii) orbital excitation, and (iii) valley excitation of an electron. We find different power-law dependencies on the applied magnetic field B for the three mechanisms as well as for the two leakage rates, ranging from ∝B 5 to ∝B 11 , and identify the sweet spot as a point of minimal leakage. We also revisit the role of electrical noise at the sweet spot and show that it causes a decay of coherent qubit oscillations that follows a power law ∝1/t (as opposed to the more common exponential decay) and introduces a π/2 phase shift.
We theoretically model the spin-orbit interaction in silicon quantum dot devices, relevant for quantum computation and spintronics. Our model is based on a modified effective mass approach which properly accounts for spin-valley boundary conditions, derived from the interface symmetry, and should have applicability for other heterostructures. We show how the valley-dependent interface-induced spin-orbit 2D (3D) interaction, under the presence of an electric field that is perpendicular to the interface, leads to a g-factor renormalization in the two lowest valley states of a silicon quantum dot. These g-factors can change with electric field in opposite direction when intervalley spin-flip tunneling is favored over intravalley processes, explaining recent experimental results. We show that the quantum dot level structure makes only negligible higher order effects to the g-factor. We calculate the g-factor as a function of the magnetic field direction, which is sensitive to the interface symmetry. We identify spin-qubit dephasing sweet spots at certain directions of the magnetic field, where the g-factor renormalization is zeroed: these include perpendicular to the interface magnetic field, and also in-plane directions, the latter being defined by the interface-induced spin-orbit constants. The g-factor dependence on electric field opens the possibility for fast all-electric manipulation of an encoded, few electron spin qubit, without the need of a nanomagnet or a nuclear spin-background. Our approach of an almost fully analytic theory allows for a deeper physical understanding of the importance of spin-orbit coupling to silicon spin qubits.
We propose a topological qubit in which braiding and readout are mediated by the 4π Majorana-Josephson effect. The braidonium device consists of three Majorana nanowires that come together to make a trijunction. In order to control the superconducting phase differences at the trijunction, the nanowires are enclosed in a ring made of a conventional superconductor. In order to perform initialization and readout, one of the nanowires is coupled to a fluxonium qubit through a topological Josephson junction. We analyze how flux-based control and readout protocols can be used to demonstrate braiding and qubit operation for realistic materials and circuit parameters.
We introduce a clean cluster spin chain coupled to fully interacting spinless fermions, forming an unconstrained Z 2 lattice gauge theory (LGT), which possesses dynamical proximity effect controlled by the entanglement structure of the initial state. We expand the machinery of interaction-driven localization to the realm of LGTs such that for any starting product state, the matter fields exhibit emergent statistical bubble localization, which is driven solely by the cluster interaction, having no topologically trivial noninteracting counterpart, and thus is of a pure dynamical many-body effect. In this vein, our proposed setting provides possibly the minimal model dropping all the conventional assumptions regarding the existence of many-body localization. Through projective measurement of local constituting species, we also identify the coexistence of the disentangled nonergodic matter and thermalized gauge degrees of freedom, which stands completely beyond the standard established phenomenology of quantum disentangled liquids. As a byproduct of self-localization of the proximate fermions, the spin subsystem hosts the long-lived topological edge zero modes, which are dynamically decoupled from the thermalized background Z 2 charges of the bulk, and hence remains cold at arbitrary high-energy density. This provides a convenient platform for strong protection of the quantum bits of information, which are embedded at the edges of completely ergodic subsystem; the phenomenon that in the absence of such proximity-induced self-localization could, at best, come about with a prethermal manner in translational invariant systems. Finally, by breaking local Z 2 symmetry of the model, we argue that such admixture of particles no longer remains disentangled and the ergodic gauge degrees of freedom act as a "small bath" coupled to the localized components.
Self-assembled InAs quantum dots (QDs), which have long hole-spin coherence times and are amenable to optical control schemes, have long been explored as building blocks for qubit architectures. One such design consists of vertically stacking two QDs to create a QD molecule (QDM) and using the spin-mixing properties of "moleculelike" coupled hole states for all-optical qubit manipulation. In this paper, the first of two papers, we introduce the incorporation of dilute GaBi x As 1-x alloys in the barrier region between the two dots. GaBi x As 1-x is expected to increase the spin mixing of the molecular states needed for qubit operations by raising the barrier valence-band edge and spin-orbit splitting. Using an atomistic tight-binding model, we compute the properties of GaBi x As 1-x and the modification of hole states that arise when the alloy is used in the barrier of an InAs QDM. An atomistic treatment is necessary to correctly capture nontraditional alloy effects such as the band-anticrossing valence band. It also allows for the study of configurational variances and clustering effects of the alloy. We find that in InAs QDMs with a GaBiAs interdot barrier, electron states are not strongly affected by the inclusion of Bi. However, hole states are much more sensitive to the presence and configuration of Bi in the barriers. By independently studying the alloy-induced strain and electronic scattering off Bi and As orbitals, we conclude that an initial increase in QDM hole-state energy at low Bi concentration is caused by the alloy-induced strain. We further find that the decrease in QDM hole energy at higher Bi concentrations can only be explained when both alloy strain and orbital effects are considered. In our second paper, we use the understanding developed here to discuss how the alloyed barriers contribute to enhancement in hole spin-mixing and the implications for QDM qubit architectures.
We investigate the nonequilibrium behavior of a fully connected (or all-to-all coupled) Bose-Hubbard model after a Mott to superfluid quench, in the limit of large boson densities and for an arbitrary number V of lattice sites, with potential relevance in experiments ranging from cold atoms to superconducting qubits. By means of the truncated Wigner approximation, we predict that crossing a critical quench strength the system undergoes a dynamical phase transition between two regimes that are characterized at long times either by an inhomogeneous population of the lattice (i.e., macroscopical self-trapping) or by the tendency of the mean-field bosonic variables to split into two groups with phase difference π , that we refer to as π -synchronization. We show the latter process to be intimately connected to the presence, only for V 4, of a manifold of infinitely many fixed points of the dynamical equations. Finally, we show that no fine-tuning of the model parameters is needed for the emergence of such π -synchronization, that is in fact found to vanish smoothly in presence of an increasing site-dependent disorder, in what we call a synchronization crossover.
The combination of strong spin-orbit coupling and strong correlations holds tremendous potential for interesting physical phenomena as well as applications in spintronics and quantum computation. In this context, we here study the interplay between the Rashba spin-orbit coupling (RSOC) and the Kondo screening in noncentrosymmetric f -electron materials. We show that the Kondo coupling of the f electrons becomes anisotropic at high temperatures due to the RSOC. However, an isotropic Kondo effect is restored at low temperature, which leads to a complete Kondo screening. We furthermore demonstrate that the Kondo effect has influence on the Rashba splitting in the band structure, which becomes temperature dependent. Although the f electrons are localized at high temperature, a helical spin polarization of the conduction band emerges due to the scattering with the f electrons. With decreasing temperature, the Kondo screening occurs, which leads to drastic changes in the band structure. Remarkably, these changes in the band structure depend on the helical spin polarization. For strong RSOC, we observe that the hybridization gap of one of the helical bands is closed at low temperature and a helical half metal is formed.
We analyze a system of two interacting spin-qubits subjected to a Landau-Majorana-Stückelberg-Zener (LMSZ) ramp. We prove that LMSZ transitions of the two spin qubits are possible without an external transverse static field since its role is played by the coupling between the spin qubits. We show how such a physical effect could be exploited to estimate the strength of the interaction between the two spin qubits and to generate entangled states of the system by appropriately setting the slope of the ramp. Moreover, the study of effects of the coupling parameters on the time behavior of the entanglement is reported. Finally, our symmetry-based approach allows us to discuss also effects stemming from the presence of a classical noise or non-Hermitian dephasing terms.
We propose a physical mechanism to generate and selectively amplify anisotropic Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interactions between two local spins. The idea is to combine the deflection of the carrier velocity by a p-n interface and the locking of this velocity to the carrier spin orientation via spin-orbit coupling. We provide analytical and numerical results to demonstrate this mechanism on the surface of a topological insulator p-n junction. This work identifies the p-n interface as a second knob which, together with the carrier density, enables independent control of the strength and anisotropy of the RKKY interaction over a wide range. These findings may be relevant to scalable quantum computation and two-impurity quantum criticality.
Surface superconductivity has recently been observed on the (001) surface of the topological crystalline insulator Pb 1-x Sn x Te using point-contact spectroscopy and theoretically proposed to be of the chiral p-wave type. In this paper, we closely examine the conditions for realizing a robust chiral p-wave order in this system rather than conventional s-wave superconductivity. Further, within the p-wave superconducting phase, we identify parameter regimes where impurity bound (Shiba) states depend crucially on the existence of the chiral p-wave order and distinguish them from other regimes where the chiral p-wave order does exist but the impurity-induced subgap bound states cannot be used as evidence for it. Such a distinction can provide an easily realizable experimental test for chiral p-wave order in this system. As a possible application of our findings, we also show that the zero-energy Shiba states in point defects possess an internal SU(2) rotational symmetry which enables them to be useful as quantum qubits.
Monolayer 1T -WTe 2 attracts rapidly growing interests aiming for promising applications in spintronics, dissipationless transport, and quantum computations. Due to one-dimensional W-W chains, 1T -WTe 2 exhibits unique anisotropic structure and promising properties, which can be modified by simply applying strains. Based on first-principles calculations, we systematically study the phonon dispersion curves as well as the Raman-active modes of 1T -WTe 2 under different tensile strains. We find that one branch of acoustic phonon softens at special q points under a critical strain of ε a = 11.55% along the a axis (with W -W chains) direction, or ε b = 7.0% along the b-axis direction and ε ab = 8.44% along the biaxial direction. Before reaching such critical strains, the Raman frequencies of A 1 g , A 3 g , and A 4 g modes, contributing to the main peaks in Raman spectra of 1T -WTe 2 , show anisotropic responses to different strains. The response to biaxial strains is found to be the most sensitive. We find that the frequency shift of A 3 g mode shows parabolic characters of strained 1T -WTe 2 , then we split it into two parts and it shows a Raman-shift transition at ∼5% strains. While for the A 1 g and A 4 g modes, the frequencies change linearly.
The generalized n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states and their local unitary equivalents are the only states of n qubits that are not uniquely determined among pure states by their reduced density matrices of n ÿ 1 qubits. Thus, among pure states, the generalized GHZ states are the only ones containing information at the n-party level. We point out a connection between local unitary stabilizer subgroups and the property of being determined by reduced density matrices.
We present a remarkable finding that a recently discovered [G. S. Uhrig, Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 100504  (2007)] series of pulse sequences, designed to optimally restore coherence to a qubit in the spin-boson model of decoherence, is in fact completely model independent and generically valid for arbitrary dephasing Hamiltonians given sufficiently short delay times between pulses. The series maximizes qubit fidelity versus number of applied pulses for sufficiently short delay times because the series, with each additional pulse, cancels successive orders of a time expansion for the fidelity decay. The ''magical'' universality of this property, which was not appreciated earlier, requires that a linearly growing set of ''unknowns'' (the delay times) must simultaneously satisfy an exponentially growing set of nonlinear equations that involve arbitrary dephasing Hamiltonian operators.
Using quantization in the Fock space of operators, we compute the nonequilibrium steady state in an open Heisenberg XY spin 1=2 chain of a finite but large size coupled to Markovian baths at its ends. Numerical and theoretical evidence is given for a far-from-equilibrium quantum phase transition with the spontaneous emergence of long-range order in spin-spin correlation functions, characterized by a transition from saturation to linear growth with the size of the entanglement entropy in operator space.
Two-dimensional (p x þ ip y ) superfluids or superconductors offer a playground for studying intriguing physics such as quantum teleportation, non-Abelian statistics, and topological quantum computation. Creating such a superfluid in cold fermionic atom optical traps using p-wave Feshbach resonance is turning out to be challenging. Here we propose a method to create a p x þ ip y superfluid directly from an s-wave interaction making use of a topological Berry phase, which can be artificially generated. We discuss ways to detect the spontaneous Hall mass current, which acts as a diagnostic for the chiral p-wave superfluid.
We demonstrate manipulation of nuclear spin coherence in a GaAs=AlGaAs quantum well by optically detected nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). A phase shift of the Larmor precession of photoexcited electron spins is detected to read out the hyperfine-coupled nuclear spin polarization. Multipulse NMR sequences are generated to control the population and examine the phase coherence in quadrupolar-split spin-3=2 75 As nuclei. The phase coherence among the multilevel nuclear spin states is addressed by application of pulse sequences that are used in quantum gate operations.
Despite tremendous activity in employing the N À V À center in a host of quantum technology applications, the electronic and optical properties of the system are still not theoretically well understood. We have conducted density functional theory calculations of the N À V À system which show convergence at the 3 Â 3 Â 3 supercell level and for the first time produce a quantitatively accurate picture of the optical transition energy, excited-state lifetime, and optical polarization anisotropy taking into account all possible transitions within all contributing energy bands. These calculations were augmented by a group theoretical analysis, in sum providing a new ab initio understanding of this important solid-state quantum system.
We report reliable transport of 9 Be þ ions through an ''X junction'' in a 2D trap array that includes a separate loading and reservoir zone. During transport the ion's kinetic energy in its local well increases by only a few motional quanta and internal-state coherences are preserved. We also examine two sources of energy gain during transport: a particular radio-frequency noise heating mechanism and digital sampling noise. Such studies are important to achieve scaling in a trapped-ion quantum information processor.
We theoretically model a nuclear-state preparation scheme that increases the coherence time of a twospin qubit in a double quantum dot. The two-electron system is tuned repeatedly across a singlet-triplet level anticrossing with alternating slow and rapid sweeps of an external bias voltage. Using a Landau-Zener-Stu ¨ckelberg model, we find that in addition to a small nuclear polarization that weakly affects the electron spin coherence, the slow sweeps are only partially adiabatic and lead to a weak nuclear spin measurement and a nuclear-state narrowing which prolongs the electron spin coherence. This resolves some open problems brought up by a recent experiment [D. J. Reilly et al., Science 321, 817 (2008).]. Based on our description of the weak measurement, we simulate a system with up to n ¼ 200 nuclear spins per dot. Scaling in n indicates a stronger effect for larger n.
We analyze the relationship between tripartite entanglement and genuine tripartite nonlocality for threequbit pure states in the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger class. We consider a family of states known as the generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states and derive an analytical expression relating the threetangle, which quantifies tripartite entanglement, to the Svetlichny inequality, which is a Bell-type inequality that is violated only when all three qubits are nonlocally correlated. We show that states with three-tangle less than 1=2 do not violate the Svetlichny inequality. On the other hand, a set of states known as the maximal slice states does violate the Svetlichny inequality, and exactly analogous to the two-qubit case, the amount of violation is directly related to the degree of tripartite entanglement. We discuss further interesting properties of the generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and maximal slice states.
It is proposed that in s-wave superfluids of cold fermionic atoms with laser-field-generated effective spin-orbit interactions, a topological phase with gapless edge states and Majorana fermion quasiparticles obeying non-Abelian statistics is realized in the case with a large Zeeman magnetic field. Our scenario provides a promising approach to the realization of quantum computation based on the manipulation of non-Abelian anyons via an s-wave Feshbach resonance.
We solve the entanglement classification under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) for all multipartite symmetric states in the general N-qubit case. For this purpose, we introduce 2 parameters playing a crucial role, namely, the diversity degree and the degeneracy configuration of a symmetric state. Those parameters give rise to a simple method of identifying operational families of SLOCC entanglement classes of all symmetric N-qubit states, where the number of families grows as the partition function of the number of qubits.
While Eqs. (10)(11)(12) are correct, the conclusion afterwards is not. The lower bound in Eq. ( 
In this Letter, (a) and (b) of Fig. 
The negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy defect in diamond is an important atomic-scale structure that can be used as a qubit in quantum computing and as a marker in biomedical applications. Its usefulness relies on the ability to optically excite electrons between well-defined gap states, which requires a clear and detailed understanding of the relevant states and excitation processes. Here we show that by using hybrid density-functional-theory calculations in a large supercell we can reproduce the zero-phonon line and the Stokes and anti-Stokes shifts, yielding a complete picture of the spin-conserving excitation of this defect.
The Majorana fermion, which can be useful for topological quantum computation, has eluded detection. 3 He-B, recently shown to be a time-reversal invariant topological superfluid, has a gapless Majorana fermion surface state. We show here that an electron spin relaxation experiment can detect this surface state-its Majorana nature through the Zeeman field direction dependence of the relaxation time 1=T 1 / sin 2 , where is the angle between the field and the surface normal. We propose an experimental setup where an electron inside a nanobubble is injected below the 3 He liquid surface.
We characterize supramolecular magnetic structures, consisting of two weakly coupled antiferromagnetic rings, by low-temperature specific heat, susceptibility, magnetization and electron paramagnetic resonance measurements. Intra-and inter-ring interactions are modeled through a microscopic spin-Hamiltonian approach that reproduces all the experimental data quantitatively and legitimates the use of an effective two-qubit picture. Spin entanglement between the rings is experimentally demonstrated through magnetic susceptibility below 50 mK and theoretically quantified by the concurrence.
Cold atoms in highly excited Rydberg states are promising candidates to implement quantum logic gates of a quantum computer via long-range dipole-dipole interaction. Two-qubit gates require a controlled interaction of only two close Rydberg atoms. We report on the first spectroscopic observation of the resonant dipole-dipole interaction between two cold rubidium Rydberg atoms confined in a small laser excitation volume. The interaction strength was controlled by fine-tuning of the Rydberg levels into a Fo ¨rster resonance using the Stark effect. The observed resonance line shapes are in good agreement with numerical Monte Carlo simulations.
We measure the hyperfine interaction of the valence band hole with nuclear spins in single InP=GaInP semiconductor quantum dots. Detection of photoluminescence (PL) of both ''bright'' and ''dark'' excitons enables direct measurement of the Overhauser shift of states with the same electron but opposite hole spin projections. We find that the hole hyperfine constant is % 11% of that of the electron and has the opposite sign. By measuring the degree of circular polarization of the PL, an upper limit to the contribution of the heavy-light hole mixing to the measured value of the hole hyperfine constant is deduced. Our results imply that environment-independent hole spins are not realizable in III-V semiconductor, a result important for solid-state quantum information processing using hole spin qubits.
We introduce a new type of superconducting charge qubit that has a V-shaped energy spectrum and uses quantum interference to provide independently tunable qubit energy and coherent coupling to a superconducting cavity. Dynamic access to the strong coupling regime is demonstrated by tuning the coupling strength from less than 200 kHz to greater than 40 MHz. This tunable coupling can be used to protect the qubit from cavity-induced relaxation and avoid unwanted qubit-qubit interactions in a multiqubit system.
It is well known that the ground state energy of many-particle Hamiltonians involving only 2-body interactions can be obtained using constrained optimizations over density matrices which arise from reducing an N-particle state. While determining which 2-particle density matrices are ''N-representable'' is a computationally hard problem, all known extreme N-representable 2-particle reduced density matrices arise from a unique N-particle preimage, satisfying a conjecture established in 1972. We present explicit counterexamples to this conjecture through giving Hamiltonians with 2-body interactions which have degenerate ground states that cannot be distinguished by any 2-body operator. We relate the existence of such counterexamples to quantum error correction codes and topologically ordered spin systems.
Electron spin qubits in molecular systems offer high reproducibility and the ability to self-assemble into larger architectures. However, interactions between neighboring qubits are ''always on,'' and although the electron spin coherence times can be several hundred microseconds, these are still much shorter than typical times for nuclear spins. Here we implement an electron-nuclear hybrid scheme which uses coherent transfer between electron and nuclear spin degrees of freedom in order to both effectively turn on or off interqubit coupling mediated by dipolar interactions and benefit from the long nuclear spin decoherence times (T 2n ). We transfer qubit states between the electron and 15 N nuclear spin in 15 N@C 60 with a two-way process fidelity of 88%, using a series of tuned microwave and radio frequency pulses and measure a nuclear spin coherence lifetime of over 100 ms.
We demonstrate single-shot readout of a silicon quantum dot spin qubit, and we measure the spin relaxation time T 1 . We show that the rate of spin loading can be tuned by an order of magnitude by changing the amplitude of a pulsed-gate voltage, and the fraction of spin-up electrons loaded can also be controlled. This tunability arises because electron spins can be loaded through an orbital excited state. Using a theory that includes excited states of the dot and energy-dependent tunneling, we find that a global fit to the loading rate and spin-up fraction is in good agreement with the data.
We discuss the entanglement properties of symmetric states of n qubits. The Majorana representation maps a generic such state into a system of n points on a sphere. Entanglement invariants, either under local unitaries (LU) or stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC), can then be addressed in terms of the relative positions of the Majorana points. In the LU case, an overcomplete set of invariants can be built from the inner product of the radial vectors pointing to these points; this is detailed for the well-documented three-qubits case. In the SLOCC case, a cross ratio of related Mo ¨bius transformations are shown to play a central role, exemplified here for four qubits. Finally, as a side result, we also analyze the manifold of maximally entangled 3 qubit state, both in the symmetric and generic case.
We present the first numerical computation of the neutral fermion gap, Á F , in the ¼ 5=2 quantum Hall state, which is analogous to the energy gap for a Bogoliubov-de Gennes quasiparticle in a superconductor. We find Á F % 0:027 e 2 "' 0 , comparable to the charge gap. We also deduce an effective Fermi velocity v F for neutral fermions from the low-energy spectra for odd numbers of electrons, and thereby obtain a correlation length F ¼ v F =Á F % 1:3' 0 . We comment on implications for experiments, topological quantum information processing, and electronic mechanisms of superconductivity.
For a reliable implementation of quantum teleportation, a near-deterministic (close to 100%) discrimination of all four Bell states of entangled qubits is required. One can carry it out with linear optical elements only if conditional dynamics are allowed. Here we present a setup in which we repeatedly disentangle and reentangle photons in three of four states, so as to separate photons in one of them, conditioned on keeping the other two at bay. The efficiency of a realistic implementation of our setup with current technology is over 90% for an ideal source of photons on demand.
The negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV À ) center in diamond is considered to be one of the most promising solid state systems for quantum information applications. Excited states of the NV À center play a center role in the proposed applications. Using a combination of first-principles calculations and vibronic interaction model analysis, we establish the presence of a dynamic Jahn-Teller effect in the 3 E excited state. The calculated temperature-dependent dephasing rate for the zero phonon line as well as the splitting of the first two vibronic states are in good agreement with experiment.
We report on coherent manipulation of electron spins in an antiferromagnetically coupled spin triangle fCu 3 -Xg (X ¼ As, Sb) impregnated in freestanding nanoporous silicon (NS) by using 240 GHz microwave pulses. Rabi oscillations are observed and the spin coherence time is found to be T 2 ¼ 1066 ns at 1.5 K. This demonstrates that the fCu 3 -Xg:NS hybrid material provides a promising scheme for implementing spin-based quantum gates. By measuring the spin relaxation times of samples with different symmetries and environments we give evidence that a spin chirality is the main decoherence source of spin triangle molecules.
We report on experiments exploring Stark-tuned Fo ¨rster resonances between Rydberg atoms with high resolution in the Fo ¨rster defect. The individual resonances are expected to exhibit different angular dependencies, opening the possibility to tune not only the interaction strength but also the angular dependence of the pair state potentials by an external electric field. We achieve a high resolution by optical Ramsey interferometry for Rydberg atoms combined with electric field pulses. The resonances are detected by a loss of visibility in the Ramsey fringes due to resonances in the interaction. We present measurements of the density dependence as well as of the coherence time at and close to Fo ¨rster resonances.
We report a frequency coding limit cycle and anomalous capacitance in the Kondo insulator SmB 6 at low temperatures where the insulating gap becomes fully opened. The limit cycle appears to be associated with local activity and autocatalytic temporal pattern formation, as occurs in biological systems. The measured anomalous capacitance may indicate surface and bulk separation, suggesting the formation of a surface conducting state. The biological analogy suggests lossless information transport and complex information coding, and the surface state with a superconductor would provide a possible venue for quantum computing resources without decoherence.
GeTe=Sb 2 Te 3 superlattice phase-change memory devices demonstrated greatly improved performance over that of Ge 2 Sb 2 Te 5 , a prototype record media for phase-change random access memory. In this work, we show that this type of GeTe=Sb 2 Te 3 superlattice exhibits topological insulating behavior on the basis of ab initio calculations. The analysis of the band structures and parities as well as Z 2 topological invariants unravels the topological insulating nature in these artificial materials. Furthermore, the topological insulating character remains in the GeTe=Sb 2 Te 3 superlattice under small compressive strains, whereas it is not observed as more Sb 2 Te 3 building blocks introduced in the superlattice. The present results show that multifunctional data storages may be achieved in the GeTe=Sb 2 Te 3 superlattice. Such kinds of artificial materials can be used in phase-change random access memory, spintronics, and quantum computing.
Motional heating of trapped atomic ions is a major obstacle to their use as quantum bits in a scalable quantum computer. The detailed physical origin of this heating is not well understood, but experimental evidence suggests that it is caused by electric-field noise emanating from the surface of the trap electrodes. In this study, we have investigated the role of adsorbates on the electrodes by identifying contaminant overlayers, implementing an in situ argon-ion-beam cleaning treatment, and measuring ion heating rates before and after treating the trap electrodes' surfaces. We find a 100-fold reduction in heating rate after treatment. The experiments described here are sensitive to low levels of electric-field noise in the MHz frequency range. Therefore, this approach could become a useful tool in surface science that complements established techniques.
Engineering nanomechanical quantum systems possessing ultralong motional coherence times allows for applications in precision quantum sensing and quantum interfaces, but to achieve ultrahigh motional Q one must work hard to remove all forms of motional noise and heating. We examine a magnetomeso-mechanical quantum system that consists of a 3D arrangement of miniature superconducting loops which is stably levitated in a static inhomogeneous magnetic field. The motional decoherence is predominantly due to loss from induced eddy currents in the magnetized sphere which provides the trapping field ultimately yielding Q $ 10 9 with motional oscillation frequencies of several hundreds of kilohertz. By inductively coupling this levitating object to a nearby driven flux qubit one can cool its motion very close to the ground state and this may permit the generation of macroscopic entangled motional states of multiple clusters.
We experimentally demonstrate polarization entanglement for squeezed vacuum pulses containing more than 10 5 photons. We also study photon-number entanglement by calculating the Schmidt number and measuring its operational counterpart. Theoretically, our pulses are the more entangled the brighter they are. This promises important applications in quantum technologies, especially photonic quantum gates and quantum memories.
We distinguish different mechanisms for population inversion in flux qubits driven by dc þ ac magnetic fields. We show that for driving amplitudes such that there are Landau-Zener-Stu ¨ckelberg interferences, it is possible to have population inversion solely mediated by the environmental bath. Furthermore, we find that the degree of population inversion can be controlled by tailoring a resonant frequency p in the environmental bath. To observe these effects experiments should be performed for long driving times after full relaxation.
We report on microwave-driven coherent electron transfer between two coupled donors embedded in a silicon nanowire. By increasing the microwave frequency we observe a transition from incoherent to coherent driving revealed by the emergence of a Landau-Zener-Stu ¨ckelberg quantum interference pattern of the measured current through the donors. This interference pattern is fitted to extract characteristic parameters of the double-donor system. In particular we estimate a charge dephasing time of 0:3 AE 0:1 ns, comparable to other types of charge-based two-level systems. The demonstrated coherent coupling between two dopants is an important step towards donor-based quantum computing devices in silicon.
We present a measurement protocol for discriminating between two different quantum states of a qubit with high fidelity. The protocol, called null value, is comprised of a projective measurement performed on the system with a small probability (also known as partial collapse), followed by a tuned postselection. We report on an optical experimental implementation of the scheme. We show that our protocol leads to an amplified signal-to-noise ratio (as compared with a straightforward strong measurement) when discerning between the two quantum states.
Decomposing unitaries into a sequence of elementary operations is at the core of quantum computing. Information theoretic arguments show that approximating a random unitary with precision " requires ð logð1="ÞÞ gates. Prior to our work, the state of the art in approximating a single qubit unitary included the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm that requires Oðlog 3þ ð1="ÞÞ gates and does not use ancillae and the phase kickback approach that requires Oðlog 2 ð1="Þ loglogð1="ÞÞ gates but uses Oðlog 2 ð1="ÞÞ ancillae. Both algorithms feature upper bounds that are far from the information theoretic lower bound. In this Letter, we report an algorithm that saturates the lower bound, and as such it guarantees asymptotic optimality. In particular, we present an algorithm for building a circuit that approximates single qubit unitaries with precision " using Oð logð1="ÞÞ Clifford and T gates and employing up to two ancillary qubits. We connect the unitary approximation problem to the problem of constructing solutions corresponding to Lagrange's four-square theorem, and thereby develop an algorithm for computing an approximating circuit using an average of Oðlog 2 ð1="Þ loglogð1="ÞÞ operations with integers.
We propose a design for molecular charge qubits based on -conjugated block copolymers and determine their electronic structure as well as their vibrational active modes. By tuning the length of the oligomers, the tunnel coupling in the charge qubit and its decoherence properties due to molecular vibrations can be chemically engineered. Coherent oscillations result with quality factors of up to 10 4 at room temperature. In turn, the molecular vibrational spectrum induces strong non-Markovian electronic effects which support the survival of quantum coherence.
We propose to use an ancilla fluxonium qubit to interact with a Majorana qubit hosted by a topological one-dimensional wire. The coupling is obtained using the Majorana qubit-controlled 4 Josephson effect to flux bias the fluxonium qubit. We demonstrate how this coupling can be used to sensitively identify topological superconductivity, to measure the state of the Majorana qubit, to construct 2-qubit operations, and to implement quantum memories with topological protection.
Recent experiments have shown that Landau-Majorana-Stu ¨ckelberg-Zener (LMSZ) interferometry is a powerful tool for demonstrating and exploiting quantum coherence not only in atomic systems but also in a variety of solid state quantum systems such as spins in quantum dots, superconducting qubits, and nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond. In this Letter, we propose and develop a general (and, in principle, exact) theoretical formalism to identify and characterize the interference resonances that are the hallmark of LMSZ interferometry. Unlike earlier approaches, our scheme does not require any approximations, allowing us to uncover important and previously unknown features of the resonance structure. We also discuss the experimental observability of our results.
We report measurements of discrete excitation-induced frequency shifts on the 7 F 0 ! 5 D 0 transition of the Eu 3þ center in La:Lu:EuCl 3 Á 6D 2 O resulting from the optical excitation of neighboring Eu 3þ ions. Shifts of up to 46:081 AE 0:005 MHz were observed. The magnitude of the interaction between neighboring ions was found to be significantly larger than expected from the electric dipole-dipole mechanism often observed in rare earth systems. We show that a large network of interacting and individually addressable centers can be created by lightly doping crystals otherwise stoichiometric in the optically active rare earth ion, and that this network could be used to implement a quantum processor with more than ten qubits.
Single charge nanoscale detection in ambient conditions is a current frontier in metrology that has diverse interdisciplinary applications. Here, such single charge detection is demonstrated using two nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. One NV center is employed as a sensitive electrometer to detect the change in electric field created by the displacement of a single electron resulting from the optical switching of the other NV center between its neutral (NV 0 ) and negative (NV -) charge states. As a consequence, our measurements also provide direct insight into the charge dynamics inside the material.
Controlling coherent interaction at avoided crossings and the dynamics there is at the heart of quantum information processing. A particularly intriguing dynamics is observed in the Landau-Zener regime, where periodic passages through the avoided crossing result in an interference pattern carrying information about qubit properties. In this Letter, we demonstrate a straightforward method, based on steady-state experiments, to obtain all relevant information about a qubit, including complex environmental influences. We use a two-electron charge qubit defined in a lateral double quantum dot as test system and demonstrate a long coherence time of T 2 ≃ 200 ns, which is limited by electron-phonon interaction.
We introduce a notion of the entanglement transformation rate to characterize the asymptotic comparability of two multipartite pure entangled states under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). For two well known SLOCC inequivalent three-qubit states jGHZi ¼ ð1=
We present the experimental observation of a large exchange coupling J ≈ 300 μeV between two 31 P electron spin qubits in silicon. The singlet and triplet states of the coupled spins are monitored in real time by a single-electron transistor, which detects ionization from tunnel-rate-dependent processes in the coupled spin system, yielding single-shot readout fidelities above 95%. The triplet to singlet relaxation time T 1 ≈ 4 ms at zero magnetic field agrees with the theoretical prediction for J-coupled 31 P dimers in silicon. The time evolution of the two-electron state populations gives further insight into the valley-orbit eigenstates of the donor dimer, valley selection rules and relaxation rates, and the role of hyperfine interactions. These results pave the way to the realization of two-qubit quantum logic gates with spins in silicon and highlight the necessity to adopt gating schemes compatible with weak J-coupling strengths.
We propose a method for computing n-time correlation functions of arbitrary spinorial, fermionic, and bosonic operators, consisting of an efficient quantum algorithm that encodes these correlations in an initially added ancillary qubit for probe and control tasks. For spinorial and fermionic systems, the reconstruction of arbitrary n-time correlation functions requires the measurement of two ancilla observables, while for bosonic variables time derivatives of the same observables are needed. Finally, we provide examples applicable to different quantum platforms in the frame of the linear response theory.
We present measurements of a topological property, the Chern number (C 1 ), of a closed manifold in the space of two-level system Hamiltonians, where the two-level system is formed from a superconducting qubit. We manipulate the parameters of the Hamiltonian of the superconducting qubit along paths in the manifold and extract C 1 from the nonadiabatic response of the qubit. By adjusting the manifold such that a degeneracy in the Hamiltonian passes from inside to outside the manifold, we observe a topological transition C 1 ¼ 1 → 0. Our measurement of C 1 is quantized to within 2% on either side of the transition.
By driving a dispersively coupled qubit-resonator system, we realize an "impedance-matched" Λ system that has two identical radiative decay rates from the top level and interacts with a semi-infinite waveguide. It has been predicted that a photon input from the waveguide deterministically induces a Raman transition in the system and switches its electronic state. We confirm this through microwave response to a continuous probe field, observing near-perfect (99.7%) extinction of the reflection and highly efficient (74%) frequency down-conversion. These proof-of-principle results lead to deterministic quantum gates between material qubits and microwave photons and open the possibility for scalable quantum networks interconnected with waveguide photons.
Error-correcting codes protect quantum information and form the basis of fault-tolerant quantum computing. Leading proposals for fault-tolerant quantum computation require codes with an exceedingly rare property, a transversal non-Clifford gate. Codes with the desired property are presented for d-level qudit systems with prime d. The codes use n ¼ d -1 qudits and can detect up to ∼d=3 errors. We quantify the performance of these codes for one approach to quantum computation known as magic-state distillation. Unlike prior work, we find performance is always enhanced by increasing d.
Magnetic fluctuations caused by the nuclear spins of a host crystal are often the leading source of decoherence for many types of solid-state spin qubit. In group-IV semiconductor materials, the spinbearing nuclei are sufficiently rare that it is possible to identify and control individual host nuclear spins. This Letter presents the first experimental detection and manipulation of a single 29 Si nuclear spin. The quantum nondemolition single-shot readout of the spin is demonstrated, and a Hahn echo measurement reveals a coherence time of T 2 ¼ 6.3ð7Þ ms-in excellent agreement with bulk experiments. Atomistic modeling combined with extracted experimental parameters provides possible lattice sites for the 29 Si atom under investigation. These results demonstrate that single 29 Si nuclear spins could serve as a valuable resource in a silicon spin-based quantum computer.
Majorana fermions have been intensively studied in recent years for their importance to both fundamental science and potential applications in topological quantum computing. They are predicted to exist in a vortex core of superconducting topological insulators. However, it is extremely difficult to distinguish them experimentally from other quasiparticle states for the tiny energy difference between Majorana fermions and these states, which is beyond the energy resolution of most available techniques. Here, we circumvent the problem by systematically investigating the spatial profile of the Majorana mode and the bound quasiparticle states within a vortex in Bi 2 Te 3 films grown on a superconductor NbSe 2 . While the zero bias peak in local conductance splits right off the vortex center in conventional superconductors, it splits off at a finite distance ∼20 nm away from the vortex center in Bi 2 Te 3 . This unusual splitting behavior has never been observed before and could be possibly due to the Majorana fermion zero mode. While the Majorana mode is destroyed by the interaction between vortices, the zero bias peak splits as a conventional superconductor again. This work provides self-consistent evidences of Majorana fermions and also suggests a possible route to manipulating them.
Here we derive the effective cotunneling Hamiltonian in Eq. ( 
In this Supplementary Material, we consider the effect of a finite temperature bath on the ancillary qubit spectroscopy. All the results shown in the Letter have been obtained considering reservoirs at zero temperature, because the focus is the physics of the ground state.
The two-dimensional Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) model on a honeycomb lattice has been shown to be a universal resource for quantum computation. In this valence bond solid, however, the spin interactions involve higher powers of the Heisenberg coupling ð Si • Sj Þ n , making these states seemingly unrealistic on bipartite lattices, where one expects a simple antiferromagnetic order. We show that those interactions can be generated by orbital physics in multiorbital Mott insulators. We focus on t 2g electrons on the honeycomb lattice and propose a physical realization of the spin-3=2 AKLT state. We find a phase transition from the AKLT to the Néel state on increasing Hund's rule coupling, which is confirmed by density matrix renormalization group simulations. An experimental signature of the AKLT state consists of protected, free S ¼ 1=2 spins on lattice vacancies, which may be detected in the spin susceptibility.
ρ 00;00 ρ 11;11 p Þ (page 3, left column, second paragraph) should read C ≈ 2 maxð0; jρ 01;10 j -ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi ρ 00;00 ρ 11;11 p Þ. No analysis or results are affected by this typographical error.
Topological quantum states with non-Abelian Fibonacci anyonic excitations are widely sought after for the exotic fundamental physics they would exhibit, and for universal quantum computing applications. The fractional quantum Hall (FQH) state at a filling factor of ν ¼ 12=5 is a promising candidate; however, its precise nature is still under debate and no consensus has been achieved so far. Here, we investigate the nature of the FQH ν ¼ 13=5 state and its particle-hole conjugate state at 12=5 with the Coulomb interaction, and we address the issue of possible competing states. Based on a large-scale density-matrix renormalization group calculation in spherical geometry, we present evidence that the essential physics of the Coulomb ground state (GS) at ν ¼ 13=5 and 12=5 is captured by the k ¼ 3 parafermion Read-Rezayi state (RR 3 ), including a robust excitation gap and the topological fingerprint from the entanglement spectrum and topological entanglement entropy. Furthermore, by considering the infinite-cylinder geometry (topologically equivalent to torus geometry), we expose the non-Abelian GS sector corresponding to a Fibonacci anyonic quasiparticle, which serves as a signature of the RR 3 state at 13=5 and 12=5 filling numbers.
We demonstrate high-fidelity electron spin read-out of a precision placed single donor in silicon via spin selective tunneling to either the D þ or D -charge state of the donor. By performing read-out at the stable two electron D 0 ↔ D -charge transition we can increase the tunnel rates to a nearby single electron transistor charge sensor by nearly 2 orders of magnitude, allowing faster qubit read-out (1 ms) with minimum loss in read-out fidelity (98.4%) compared to read-out at the D þ ↔ D 0 transition (99.6%). Furthermore, we show that read-out via the D -charge state can be used to rapidly initialize the electron spin qubit in its ground state with a fidelity of F I ¼ 99.8%.
We demonstrate laser-driven two-qubit and single-qubit logic gates with respective fidelities 99.9(1)% and 99.9934(3)%, significantly above the ≈99% minimum threshold level required for fault-tolerant quantum computation, using qubits stored in hyperfine ground states of calcium-43 ions held in a room-temperature trap. We study the speed-fidelity trade-off for the two-qubit gate, for gate times between 3.8 μs and 520 μs, and develop a theoretical error model which is consistent with the data and which allows us to identify the principal technical sources of infidelity.
We report high-fidelity laser-beam-induced quantum logic gates on magnetic-field-insensitive qubits comprised of hyperfine states in 9 Be þ ions with a memory coherence time of more than 1 s. We demonstrate single-qubit gates with an error per gate of 3.8ð1Þ × 10 -5 . By creating a Bell state with a deterministic two-qubit gate, we deduce a gate error of 8ð4Þ × 10 -4 . We characterize the errors in our implementation and discuss methods to further reduce imperfections towards values that are compatible with fault-tolerant processing at realistic overhead.
This year marks the 35th anniversary of landmark experiments, reported in Physical Review Letters 
Forbidden transitions between energy levels typically involve violation of selection rules imposed by symmetry and/or conservation laws. A nanomagnet tunneling between up and down states violates angular momentum conservation because of broken rotational symmetry. Here we report observations of highly forbidden transitions between spin states in a Ni 4 single-molecule magnet in which a single photon can induce the spin to change by several times ℏ, nearly reversing the direction of the spin. These observations are understood as tunneling-assisted transitions that lift the standard Δm ¼ AE1 selection rule for singlephoton transitions. These transitions are observed at low applied fields, where tunneling is dominated by the molecule's intrinsic anisotropy and the field acts as a perturbation. Such transitions can be exploited to create macroscopic superposition states that are not typically accessible through single-photon Δm ¼ AE1 transitions.
We report on electron spin resonance measurements of phosphorus donors localized in a 200 μm 2 area below the inductive wire of a lumped element superconducting resonator. By combining quantum limited parametric amplification with a low impedance microwave resonator design, we are able to detect around 2 × 10 4 spins with a signal-to-noise ratio of 1 in a single shot. The 150 Hz coupling strength between the resonator field and individual spins is significantly larger than the 1-10 Hz coupling rates obtained with typical coplanar waveguide resonator designs. Because of the larger coupling rate, we find that spin relaxation is dominated by radiative decay into the resonator and dependent upon the spin-resonator detuning, as predicted by Purcell.
Manipulating qubits via electrical pulses in a piezoelectric material such as GaAs can be expected to generate incidental acoustic phonons. In this Letter we determine theoretically and experimentally the consequences of these phonons for semiconductor spin qubits using Landau-Zener-Stückelberg interferometry. Theoretical calculations predict that phonons in the presence of the spin-orbit interaction produce both phonon-Rabi fringes and accelerated evolution at the singlet-triplet anticrossing. Observed features confirm the influence of these mechanisms. Additionally, evidence is found that the pulsed gates themselves act as phonon cavities increasing the influence of phonons under specific resonant conditions.
Kitaev interactions underlying a quantum spin liquid have long been sought, but experimental data from which their strengths can be determined directly, are still lacking. Here, by carrying out inelastic neutron scattering measurements on high-quality single crystals of α-RuCl 3 , we observe spin-wave spectra with a gap of ∼2 meV around the M point of the two-dimensional Brillouin zone. We derive an effective-spin model in the strong-coupling limit based on energy bands obtained from first-principles calculations, and find that the anisotropic Kitaev interaction K term and the isotropic antiferromagnetic off-diagonal exchange interaction Γ term are significantly larger than the Heisenberg exchange coupling J term. Our experimental data can be well fit using an effective-spin model with K ¼ -6.8 meV and Γ ¼ 9.5 meV. These results demonstrate explicitly that Kitaev physics is realized in real materials.
We derive a set of composite pulse sequences that generates CNOT gates and correct all systematic errors within the logical subspace to arbitrary order. These sequences are applicable for any two-qubit interaction Hamiltonian and make no assumptions about the underlying noise mechanism except that it is constant on the time scale of the operation. We do assume access to high-fidelity single-qubit gates, so single-qubit gate imperfections eventually limit the achievable fidelity. However, since single-qubit gates generally have much higher fidelities than two-qubit gates in practice, these pulse sequences offer useful dynamical correction for a wide range of coupled qubit systems.
A sign error was found in the definition of the spin Hamiltonian (1) at the nuclear Zeeman term [third term on the right-hand side of Eq. ( 
The endohedral fullerene 15 N@C 60 has narrow electron paramagnetic resonance lines which have been proposed as the basis for a condensed-matter portable atomic clock. We measure the low-frequency spectrum of this molecule, identifying and characterizing a clock transition at which the frequency becomes insensitive to magnetic field. We infer a linewidth at the clock field of 100 kHz. Using experimental data, we are able to place a bound on the clock's projected frequency stability. We discuss ways to improve the frequency stability to be competitive with existing miniature clocks.
The discovery of magnetic bistability in Mn 12 more than 20 years ago marked the birth of molecular magnetism, an extremely fertile interdisciplinary field and a powerful route to create tailored magnetic nanostructures. However, the difficulty to determine interactions in complex polycentric molecules often prevents their understanding. Mn 12 is an outstanding example of this difficulty: although it is the forefather and most studied of all molecular nanomagnets, an unambiguous determination of even the leading magnetic exchange interactions is still lacking. Here we exploit four-dimensional inelastic neutron scattering to portray how individual spins fluctuate around the magnetic ground state, thus fixing the exchange couplings of Mn 12 for the first time. Our results demonstrate the power of four-dimensional inelastic neutron scattering as an unrivaled tool to characterize magnetic clusters.
Engineering entanglement between quantum systems often involves coupling through a bosonic mediator, which should be disentangled from the systems at the operation's end. The quality of such an operation is generally limited by environmental and control noise. One of the prime techniques for suppressing noise is by dynamical decoupling, where one actively applies pulses at a rate that is faster than the typical time scale of the noise. However, for boson-mediated gates, current dynamical decoupling schemes require executing the pulses only when the boson and the quantum systems are disentangled. This restriction implies an increase of the gate time by a factor of ffiffiffiffi N p , with N being the number of pulses applied. Here we propose and realize a method that enables dynamical decoupling in a boson-mediated system where the pulses can be applied while spin-boson entanglement persists, resulting in an increase in time that is at most a factor of π=2, independently of the number of pulses applied. We experimentally demonstrate the robustness of our entangling gate with fast dynamical decoupling to σ z noise using ions in a Paul trap.
We propose a set of protocols for verifying quantum computing at any time after the computation itself has been performed. We provide two constructions: one requires five entangled provers and a completely classical verifier; the other requires a single prover, a verifier, who is restricted to measuring qubits in the X or Z basis, and one-way quantum communication from the prover to the verifier. These results demonstrate that the verification can be achieved independently from the blindness. We also show that a constant round protocol with a single prover and a completely classical verifier is not possible, unless bounded error quantum polynomial time (BQP) is contained in the third level of the polynomial hierarchy.
In a semiconductor spin qubit with sizable spin-orbit coupling, coherent spin rotations can be driven by a resonant gate-voltage modulation. Recently, we have exploited this opportunity in the experimental demonstration of a hole spin qubit in a silicon device. Here we investigate the underlying physical mechanisms by measuring the full angular dependence of the Rabi frequency, as well as the gate-voltage dependence and anisotropy of the hole g factor. We show that a g-matrix formalism can simultaneously capture and discriminate the contributions of two mechanisms so far independently discussed in the literature: one associated with the modulation of the g factor, and measurable by Zeeman energy spectroscopy, the other not. Our approach has a general validity and can be applied to the analysis of other types of spin-orbit qubits.
We realize a Λ system in a superconducting circuit, with metastable states exhibiting lifetimes up to 8 ms. We exponentially suppress the tunneling matrix elements involved in spontaneous energy relaxation by creating a "heavy" fluxonium, realized by adding a capacitive shunt to the original circuit design. The device allows for both cavity-assisted and direct fluorescent readouts, as well as state preparation schemes akin to optical pumping. Since direct transitions between the metastable states are strongly suppressed, we utilize Raman transitions for coherent manipulation of the states.
We prove that universal quantum computation can be realized-using only linear optics and χ ð2Þ (threewave mixing) interactions-in any (n þ 1)-dimensional qudit basis of the n-pump-photon subspace. First, we exhibit a strictly universal gate set for the qubit basis in the one-pump-photon subspace. Next, we demonstrate qutrit-basis universality by proving that χ ð2Þ Hamiltonians and photon-number operators generate the full uð3Þ Lie algebra in the two-pump-photon subspace, and showing how the qutrit controlled-Z gate can be implemented with only linear optics and χ ð2Þ interactions. We then use proof by induction to obtain our general qudit result. Our induction proof relies on coherent photon injection or subtraction, a technique enabled by χ ð2Þ interaction between the encoding modes and ancillary modes. Finally, we show that coherent photon injection is more than a conceptual tool, in that it offers a route to preparing high-photon-number Fock states from single-photon Fock states.
We perform Landau-Zener-Stückelberg-Majorana (LZSM) spectroscopy on a system with strong spinorbit interaction (SOI), realized as a single hole confined in a gated double quantum dot. Analogous to electron systems, at a magnetic field B ¼ 0 and high modulation frequencies, we observe photon-assisted tunneling between dots, which smoothly evolves into the typical LZSM funnel-shaped interference pattern as the frequency is decreased. In contrast to electrons, the SOI enables an additional, efficient spin-flip interdot tunneling channel, introducing a distinct interference pattern at finite B. Magnetotransport spectra at low-frequency LZSM driving show the two channels to be equally coherent. High-frequency LZSM driving reveals complex photon-assisted tunneling pathways, both spin conserving and spin flip, which form closed loops at critical magnetic fields. In one such loop, an arbitrary hole spin state is inverted, opening the way toward its all-electrical manipulation.
The enigmatic even-denominator fractional quantum Hall state at Landau level filling factor ν ¼ 5=2 is arguably the most promising candidate for harboring Majorana quasiparticles with non-Abelian statistics and, thus, of potential use for topological quantum computing. The theoretical description of the ν ¼ 5=2 state is generally believed to involve a topological p-wave pairing of fully-spin-polarized composite fermions through their condensation into a non-Abelian Moore-Read Pfaffian state. There is, however, no direct and conclusive experimental evidence for the existence of composite fermions near ν ¼ 5=2 or for an underlying fully-spin-polarized Fermi sea. Here, we report the observation of composite fermions very near ν ¼ 5=2 through geometric resonance measurements and find that the measured Fermi wave vector provides direct demonstration of a Fermi sea with full spin polarization. This lends crucial credence to the model of 5=2 fractional quantum Hall effect as a topological p-wave paired state of composite fermions.
We study a time-reversal-invariant topological superconductor island hosting spatially separated Majorana Kramers pairs, with weak tunnel couplings to two s-wave superconducting leads. When the topological superconductor island is in the Coulomb blockade regime, we predict that a Josephson current flows between the two leads due to a nonlocal transfer of Cooper pairs mediated by the Majorana Kramers pairs. Interestingly, we find that the sign of the Josephson current is controlled by the joint parity of all four Majorana bound states on the island. Consequently, this parity-controlled Josephson effect can be used for qubit readout in Majorana-based quantum computing.
Operationally accessible entanglement in bipartite systems of indistinguishable particles could be reduced due to restrictions on the allowed local operations as a result of particle number conservation. In order to quantify this effect, Wiseman and Vaccaro [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 097902 (2003)] introduced an operational measure of the von Neumann entanglement entropy. Motivated by advances in measuring Rényi entropies in quantum many-body systems subject to conservation laws, we derive a generalization of the operationally accessible entanglement that is both computationally and experimentally measurable. Using the Widom theorem, we investigate its scaling with the size of a spatial subregion for free fermions and find a logarithmically violated area law scaling, similar to the spatial entanglement entropy, with at most a double-log leading-order correction. A modification of the correlation matrix method confirms our findings in systems of up to 10 5 particles.
The superconducting pairing in Sr 2 RuO 4 is widely considered to be chiral p wave with ⃗ d k ∼ ðk x þ ik y Þẑ, which belongs to the E u representation of the crystalline D 4h group. However, this superconducting order appears hard to reconcile with a number of key experiments. In this Letter, based on symmetry analysis we discuss the possibility of odd-parity pairing with inherent three-dimensional character enforced by the interorbital interlayer coupling and the sizable spin-orbit coupling in the material. We focus on a yet unexplored E u pairing, which contains finite (k z x, k z ŷ) component in the gap function. Under appropriate circumstances a novel time-reversal invariant nematic pairing can be realized. This nematic superconducting state could make contact with some puzzling observations on Sr 2 RuO 4 , such as the absence of spontaneous edge current and no evidence of split transitions under uniaxial strains.
Topological superfluids protected by mirror and time-reversal symmetries are exotic states of matter possessing Majorana Kramers pairs (MKPs), yet their realizations have long been hindered by the requirement of unconventional pairing. We propose to realize such a topological superfluid by utilizing s-wave pairing and emergent mirror and time-reversal symmetries in two coupled 1D ultracold atomic Fermi gases with spin-orbit coupling. By stacking such systems into 2D, we discover topological and Dirac-nodal superfluids hosting distinct MKP flat bands. We show that the emergent symmetries make the MKPs and their flat bands stable against pairing fluctuations that otherwise annihilate Majorana pairs. Exploiting new experimental developments, our scheme provides a unique platform for exploring MKPs and their applications in quantum computation.
Aiming at a better understanding of anomalous and topological effects in gauge theories out of equilibrium, we study the real-time dynamics of a prototype model for CP violation, the massive Schwinger model with a θ term. We identify dynamical quantum phase transitions between different topological sectors that appear after sufficiently strong quenches of the θ parameter. Moreover, we establish a general dynamical topological order parameter, which can be accessed through fermion two-point correlators and, importantly, which can be applied for interacting theories. Enabled by this result, we show that the topological transitions persist beyond the weak-coupling regime. Finally, these effects can be observed with tabletop experiments based on existing cold-atom, superconducting-qubit, and trapped-ion technology. Our Letter thus presents a significant step towards quantum simulating topological and anomalous real-time phenomena relevant to nuclear and high-energy physics.
Parafermions are generalizations of Majorana fermions that may appear in interacting topological systems. They are known to be powerful building blocks of topological quantum computers. Existing proposals for realizations of parafermions typically rely on strong electronic correlations which are hard to achieve in the laboratory. We identify a novel physical system in which parafermions generically develop. It is based on a quantum constriction formed by the helical edge states of a quantum spin Hall insulator in the vicinity of an ordinary s-wave superconductor. Interestingly, our analysis suggests that Z 4 parafermions are emerging bound states in this setup in the weakly interacting regime. Furthermore, we identify a situation in which Majorana fermions and parafermions can coexist.
We achieve direct detection of electron hyperfine shifts in individual CdTe=ZnTe quantum dots. For the previously inaccessible regime of strong magnetic fields B z ≳ 0.1 T, we demonstrate robust polarization of a few-hundred-particle nuclear spin bath, with an optical initialization time of ∼1 ms and polarization lifetime exceeding ∼1 s. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of individual dots reveals strong electron-nuclear interactions characterized by Knight fields jB e j ≳ 50 mT, an order of magnitude stronger than in III-V semiconductor quantum dots. Our studies confirm II-VI semiconductor quantum dots as a promising platform for hybrid electron-nuclear spin qubit registers, combining the excellent optical properties comparable to III-V dots and the dilute nuclear spin environment similar to group-IV semiconductors.
Quantum state tomography is both a crucial component in the field of quantum information and computation and a formidable task that requires an incogitable number of measurement configurations as the system dimension grows. We propose and experimentally carry out an intuitive adaptive compressive tomography scheme, inspired by the traditional compressed-sensing protocol in signal recovery, that tremendously reduces the number of configurations needed to uniquely reconstruct any given quantum state without any additional a priori assumption whatsoever (such as rank information, purity, etc.) about the state, apart from its dimension.
Ultralong-range Rydberg trimer molecules are spectroscopically observed in an ultracold gas of Csðnd 3=2 Þ atoms. The anisotropy of the atomic Rydberg state allows for the formation of angular trimers, whose energies may not be obtained from integer multiples of dimer energies. These nonadditive trimers coexist with Rydberg dimers. The existence of such effective three-body interactions is confirmed with the observation of asymmetric line profiles and interpreted by a theoretical approach that includes relativistic spin interactions. Simulations of the observed spectra with and without angular trimer lines lend convincing support to the existence of effective three-body interactions.
We formulate a discretization of σ models suitable for simulation by quantum computers. Space is substituted with a lattice, as usually done in lattice field theory, while the target space (a sphere) is replaced by the "fuzzy sphere", a construction well known from noncommutative geometry. Contrary to more naive discretizations of the sphere, in this construction the exact O(3) symmetry is maintained, which suggests that the discretized model is in the same universality class as the continuum model. That would allow for continuum results to be obtained for very rough discretizations of the target space as long as the space discretization is made fine enough. The cost of performing time evolution, measured as the number of controlled-NOT operations necessary, is 12LT=Δt, where L is the number of spatial sites, T the maximum time extent, and Δt the time spacing.
We propose and experimentally realize a technique to measure the transfer function of a control line in the frequency domain using a qubit as a vector network analyzer. Our method requires coupling the line under test to the longitudinal component of the Hamiltonian of the qubit and the ability to induce Rabi oscillations through simultaneous driving of the transverse component. The method can be used to increase the fidelity of entangling gates in a quantum processor. We have demonstrated that by characterizing the "flux" control line of a superconducting transmon qubit in the range from 1 to 450 MHz and using this characterization to improve the fidelity of an entangling CPHASE gate between two transmon qubits.
Only with the simultaneous estimation of multiple parameters are the quantum aspects of metrology fully revealed. This is due to the incompatibility of observables. The fundamental bound for multiparameter quantum estimation is the Holevo Cramér-Rao bound (HCRB) whose evaluation has so far remained elusive. For finite-dimensional systems we recast its evaluation as a semidefinite program, with reduced size for rank-deficient states. We show that it also satisfies strong duality. We use this result to study phase and loss estimation in optical interferometry and three-dimensional magnetometry with noisy multiqubit systems. For the former, we show that, in some regimes, it is possible to attain the HCRB with the optimal (single-copy) measurement for phase estimation. For the latter, we show a nontrivial interplay between the HCRB and incompatibility and provide numerical evidence that projective single-copy measurements attain the HCRB in the noiseless 2-qubit case.
We consider a class of quantum lattice models in 1 þ 1 dimensions represented as local quantum circuits that enjoy a particular dual-unitarity property. In essence, this property ensures that both the evolution in time and that in space are given in terms of unitary transfer matrices. We show that for this class of circuits, generically nonintegrable, one can compute explicitly all dynamical correlations of local observables. Our result is exact, nonpertubative, and holds for any dimension d of the local Hilbert space. In the minimal case of qubits (d ¼ 2) we also present a classification of all dual-unitary circuits which allows us to single out a number of distinct classes for the behavior of the dynamical correlations. We find noninteracting classes, where all correlations are preserved, the ergodic and mixing one, where all correlations decay, and, interestingly, also classes that are both interacting and nonergodic.
The studies of mechanical resonators in the quantum regime not only provide insight into the fundamental nature of quantum mechanics of massive objects, but also introduce promising platforms for novel hybrid quantum technologies. Here we demonstrate a configurable interaction between a superconducting qubit and many acoustic modes in the quantum regime. Specifically, we show how consecutive Landau-Zener-Stückelberg (LZS) tunneling type of transitions, which take place when a system is tuned through an avoided crossing of the coupled energy levels, interfere in a multimode system. The work progresses experimental LZS interference to cover a new class of systems where the coupled levels are those of a quantum two-level system interacting with a multitude of mechanical oscillators. The work opens up applications in controlling multiple acoustic modes via parametric modulation.
Quantum computing experiments are moving into a new realm of increasing size and complexity, with the short-term goal of demonstrating an advantage over classical computers. Boson sampling is a promising platform for such a goal; however, the number of detected single photons is up to five so far, limiting these small-scale implementations to a proof-of-principle stage. Here, we develop solid-state sources of highly efficient, pure, and indistinguishable single photons and 3D integration of ultralow-loss optical circuits. We perform experiments with 20 pure single photons fed into a 60-mode interferometer. In the output, we detect up to 14 photons and sample over Hilbert spaces with a size up to 3.7 × 10 14 , over 10 orders of magnitude larger than all previous experiments, which for the first time enters into a genuine sampling regime where it becomes impossible to exhaust all possible output combinations. The results are validated against distinguishable samplers and uniform samplers with a confidence level of 99.9%.
Microwave trapped-ion quantum logic gates avoid spontaneous emission as a fundamental source of decoherence. However, microwave two-qubit gates are still slower than laser-induced gates and hence more sensitive to fluctuations and noise of the motional mode frequency. We propose and implement amplitudeshaped gate drives to obtain resilience to such frequency changes without increasing the pulse energy per gate operation. We demonstrate the resilience by noise injection during a two-qubit entangling gate with 9 Be þ ion qubits. In the absence of injected noise, amplitude modulation gives an operation infidelity in the 10 -3 range.
We consider the precision Δφ with which the parameter φ, appearing in the unitary map U φ ¼ e iφΛ , acting on some type of probe system, can be estimated when there is a finite amount of prior information about φ. We show that, if U φ acts n times in total, then, asymptotically in n, there is a tight lower bound Δφ ≥ π=½nðλ þ -λ -Þ, where λ þ , λ -are the extreme eigenvalues of the generator Λ. This is greater by a factor of π than the conventional Heisenberg limit, derived from the properties of the quantum Fisher information. That is, the conventional bound is never saturable. Our result makes no assumptions on the measurement protocol and is relevant not only in the noiseless case but also if noise can be eliminated using quantum error correction techniques.
Topological superconductivity supports exotic Majorana bound states (MBS) which are chargeless zero-energy emergent quasiparticles. With their non-Abelian exchange statistics and fractionalization of a single electron stored nonlocally as a spatially separated MBS, they are particularly suitable for implementing fault-tolerant topological quantum computing. While realizing MBS has focused on one-dimensional systems, the onset of topological superconductivity requires delicate parameter tuning and geometric constraints pose significant challenges for their control and demonstration of non-Abelian statistics. To overcome these challenges, building on recent experiments in planar Josephson junctions (JJs), we propose a MBS platform of X-shaped JJs. This versatile implementation reveals how external flux control of the superconducting phase difference can generate and manipulate multiple MBS pairs to probe non-Abelian statistics. The underlying topological superconductivity exists over a large parameter space, consistent with materials used in our fabrication of such X junctions, as an important step towards scalable topological quantum computing.
We construct a polarization-mediated magic-intensity (MI) optical dipole trap (ODT) array, in which the detrimental effects of light shifts on the mixed-species qubits are efficiently mitigated so that the coherence times of the mixed-species qubits are both substantially enhanced and balanced for the first time. This mixed-species magic trapping technique relies on the tunability of the coefficient of the third-order cross term and ground state hyperpolarizability, which are inherently dependent on the degree of circular polarization of the trapping laser. Experimentally, polarization of the ODT array for 85 Rb qubits is finely adjusted to a definite value so that its working magnetic field required for magic trapping amounts to the one required for magically trapping 87 Rb qubits in another ODT array with fully circular polarization. Ultimately, in such a polarization-mediated MI-ODT array, the coherence times of 87 Rb and 85 Rb qubits are, respectively, enhanced up to 891 AE 47 ms and 943 AE 35 ms. Moreover, we reveal that the noise of the elliptic polarization causes dephasing effect on the 85 Rb qubits but it could be efficiently mitigated by choosing the dynamical range of active polarization device. We also show that light shifts seen by qubits in an elliptically polarized MI-ODT can be more efficiently compensated due to the decrease in the ground state hyperpolarizability. It is anticipated that the novel mixed-species MI-ODT array is a versatile platform for building scalable quantum computers with neutral atoms.
This Letter unravels an interesting property of a one-dimensional lattice model that describes a single itinerant spinless fermion (excitation) coupled to zero-dimensional (dispersionless) bosons through two different nonlocal coupling mechanisms. Namely, below a critical value of the effective excitation-boson coupling strength, the exact ground state of this model is the zero-quasimomentum Bloch state of a bare (i.e., completely undressed) excitation. It is demonstrated here how this last property of the lattice model under consideration can be exploited for a fast, deterministic preparation of multipartite W states in a readily realizable system of inductively coupled superconducting qubits and microwave resonators.
Exceptional points (EPs) of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian with parity-time-reversal ðPT Þ symmetry have the potential to drastically enhance the capabilities of metrology and sensing through their power-law growing sensitivity to external perturbation. With the ability of generating and tuning dissipation in a single trapped ion system, we observe rich dynamics and detailed quantum phase transitions from the PT -symmetric phase to the symmetry-breaking phase. In this single qubit full quantum system, we develop a method to precisely determine the location of EP without any fitting parameter, and extract the eigenvalues in a unified way through all parameter regions. We can also obtain the full density matrix by quantum state tomography. Finally, we suggest from theoretical analysis that the periodically driving PT -symmetric non-Hermitian system can be used to measure the magnitude, frequency, and phase of timedependent perturbation with EP enhancement.
Simple tuneup of fast two-qubit gates is essential for the scaling of quantum processors. We introduce the sudden variant (SNZ) of the net zero scheme realizing controlled-Z (CZ) gates by flux control of transmon frequency. SNZ CZ gates realized in a multitransmon processor operate at the speed limit of transverse coupling between computational and noncomputational states by maximizing intermediate leakage. Beyond speed, the key advantage of SNZ is tuneup simplicity, owing to the regular structure of conditional phase and leakage as a function of two control parameters. SNZ is compatible with scalable schemes for quantum error correction and adaptable to generalized conditional-phase gates useful in intermediate-scale applications.
General solutions to the quantum Rabi model involve subspaces with an unbounded number of photons. However, for the multiqubit multimode case, we find special solutions with at most one photon for an arbitrary number of qubits and photon modes. Such solutions exist for arbitrary single qubit-photon coupling strength with constant eigenenergy, while still being qubit-photon entangled states. Taking advantage of their peculiarities and the reach of the ultrastrong coupling regime, we propose an adiabatic scheme for the fast and deterministic generation of a two-qubit Bell state and arbitrary single-photon multimode W states with nonadiabatic error less than 1%. Finally, we propose a superconducting circuit design to catch and release the W states, and shows the experimental feasibility of the multimode multiqubit quantum Rabi model.
Atomiclike defects in solids are not considered to be identical owing to the imperfections of host lattice. Here, we found that even under ambient conditions, negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV -) centers in diamond could still manifest identical at Hz-precision level, corresponding to a 10 -7 -level relative precision, while the lattice strain can destroy the identity by tens of Hz. All parameters involved in the NV --14 N Hamiltonian are determined by formulating six nuclear frequencies at 10-mHz-level precision and measuring them at Hz-level precision. The most precisely measured parameter, the 14 N quadrupole coupling P, is given by -494 575 4.9ð8Þ Hz, whose precision is improved by nearly 4 orders of magnitude compared with previous measurements. We offer an approach for performing precision measurements in solids and deepening our understandings of NV centers as well as other solid-state defects. Besides, these high-precision results imply a potential application of a robust and integrated atomiclike clock based on ensemble NV centers.
We experimentally determine isotropic and anisotropic g-factor corrections in lateral GaAs singleelectron quantum dots. We extract the Zeeman splitting by measuring the tunnel rates into the individual spin states of an empty quantum dot for an in-plane magnetic field with various strengths and directions. We quantify the Zeeman energy and find a linear dependence on the magnetic field strength that allows us to extract the g factor. The measured g factor is understood in terms of spin-orbit interaction induced isotropic and anisotropic corrections to the GaAs bulk g factor. Experimental detection and identification of minute band-structure effects in the g factor is of significance for spin qubits in GaAs quantum dots.
We propose and experimentally measure an entropy that quantifies the volume of correlations among qubits. The experiment is carried out on a nearly isolated quantum system composed of a central spin coupled and initially uncorrelated with 15 other spins. Because of the spin-spin interactions, information flows from the central spin to the surrounding ones forming clusters of multispin correlations that grow in time. We design a nuclear magnetic resonance experiment that directly measures the amplitudes of the multispin correlations and use them to compute the evolution of what we call correlation Rényi entropy. This entropy keeps growing even after the equilibration of the entanglement entropy. We also analyze how the saturation point and the timescale for the equilibration of the correlation Rényi entropy depend on the system size.
Multimode cavity quantum electrodynamics-where a two-level system interacts simultaneously with many cavity modes-provides a versatile framework for quantum information processing and quantum optics. Because of the combination of long coherence times and large interaction strengths, one of the leading experimental platforms for cavity QED involves coupling a superconducting circuit to a 3D microwave cavity. In this work, we realize a 3D multimode circuit QED system with single photon lifetimes of 2 ms across 9 modes of a novel seamless cavity. We demonstrate a variety of protocols for universal single-mode quantum control applicable across all cavity modes, using only a single drive line. We achieve this by developing a straightforward flute method for creating monolithic superconducting microwave cavities that reduces loss while simultaneously allowing control of the mode spectrum and mode-qubit interaction. We highlight the flexibility and ease of implementation of this technique by using it to fabricate a variety of 3D cavity geometries, providing a template for engineering multimode quantum systems with exceptionally low dissipation. This work is an important step towards realizing hardware efficient random access quantum memories and processors, and for exploring quantum many-body physics with photons.
Multimode cavity quantum electrodynamics-where a two-level system interacts simultaneously with many cavity modes-provides a versatile framework for quantum information processing and quantum optics. Because of the combination of long coherence times and large interaction strengths, one of the leading experimental platforms for cavity QED involves coupling a superconducting circuit to a 3D microwave cavity. In this work, we realize a 3D multimode circuit QED system with single photon lifetimes of 2 ms across 9 modes of a novel seamless cavity. We demonstrate a variety of protocols for universal single-mode quantum control applicable across all cavity modes, using only a single drive line. We achieve this by developing a straightforward flute method for creating monolithic superconducting microwave cavities that reduces loss while simultaneously allowing control of the mode spectrum and mode-qubit interaction. We highlight the flexibility and ease of implementation of this technique by using it to fabricate a variety of 3D cavity geometries, providing a template for engineering multimode quantum systems with exceptionally low dissipation. This work is an important step towards realizing hardware efficient random access quantum memories and processors, and for exploring quantum many-body physics with photons.
Improving two-qubit gate performance and suppressing cross talk are major, but often competing, challenges to achieving scalable quantum computation. In particular, increasing the coupling to realize faster gates has been intrinsically linked to enhanced cross talk due to unwanted two-qubit terms in the Hamiltonian. Here, we demonstrate a novel coupling architecture for transmon qubits that circumvents the standard relationship between desired and undesired interaction rates. Using two fixed frequency coupling elements to tune the dressed level spacings, we demonstrate an intrinsic suppression of the static ZZ while maintaining large effective coupling rates. Our architecture reveals no observable degradation of qubit coherence (T 1 ; T 2 > 100 μs) and, over a factor of 6 improvement in the ratio of desired to undesired coupling. Using the cross-resonance interaction, we demonstrate a 180 ns single-pulse controlled NOT (CNOT) gate, and measure a CNOT fidelity of 99.77(2)% from interleaved randomized benchmarking.
Improving two-qubit gate performance and suppressing cross talk are major, but often competing, challenges to achieving scalable quantum computation. In particular, increasing the coupling to realize faster gates has been intrinsically linked to enhanced cross talk due to unwanted two-qubit terms in the Hamiltonian. Here, we demonstrate a novel coupling architecture for transmon qubits that circumvents the standard relationship between desired and undesired interaction rates. Using two fixed frequency coupling elements to tune the dressed level spacings, we demonstrate an intrinsic suppression of the static ZZ while maintaining large effective coupling rates. Our architecture reveals no observable degradation of qubit coherence (T 1 ; T 2 > 100 μs) and, over a factor of 6 improvement in the ratio of desired to undesired coupling. Using the cross-resonance interaction, we demonstrate a 180 ns single-pulse controlled NOT (CNOT) gate, and measure a CNOT fidelity of 99.77(2)% from interleaved randomized benchmarking.
In the third to last paragraph of the Letter, we used the inequality hZjHjZi ≥ ϵOð1=N 2 Þ as part of a proof of an ϵOð1=N 4 Þ lower bound on the gap. This inequality is not valid for arbitrary jZi. We asserted it based upon reasoning along the lines of Ref.
It has recently been discovered that random quantum circuits provide an avenue to realize rich entanglement phase diagrams, which are hidden to standard expectation values of operators. Here we study ð2 þ 1ÞD random circuits with random Clifford unitary gates and measurements designed to stabilize trivial area law and topologically ordered phases. With competing single qubit Pauli-Z and toric code stabilizer measurements, in addition to random Clifford unitaries, we find a phase diagram involving a tricritical point that maps to ð2 þ 1ÞD percolation, a possibly stable critical phase, topologically ordered, trivial, and volume law phases, and lines of critical points separating them. With Pauli-Y single qubit measurements instead, we find an anisotropic self-dual tricritical point, with dynamical exponent z ≈ 1.46, exhibiting logarithmic violation of the area law and an anomalous exponent for the topological entanglement entropy, which thus appears distinct from any known percolation fixed point. The phase diagram also hosts a measurement-induced volume law entangled phase in the absence of unitary dynamics.
It has recently been discovered that random quantum circuits provide an avenue to realize rich entanglement phase diagrams, which are hidden to standard expectation values of operators. Here we study ð2 þ 1ÞD random circuits with random Clifford unitary gates and measurements designed to stabilize trivial area law and topologically ordered phases. With competing single qubit Pauli-Z and toric code stabilizer measurements, in addition to random Clifford unitaries, we find a phase diagram involving a tricritical point that maps to ð2 þ 1ÞD percolation, a possibly stable critical phase, topologically ordered, trivial, and volume law phases, and lines of critical points separating them. With Pauli-Y single qubit measurements instead, we find an anisotropic self-dual tricritical point, with dynamical exponent z ≈ 1.46, exhibiting logarithmic violation of the area law and an anomalous exponent for the topological entanglement entropy, which thus appears distinct from any known percolation fixed point. The phase diagram also hosts a measurement-induced volume law entangled phase in the absence of unitary dynamics.
The spin-orbit interaction permits to control the state of a spin qubit via electric fields. For holes it is particularly strong, allowing for fast all electrical qubit manipulation, and yet an in-depth understanding of this interaction in hole systems is missing. Here we investigate, experimentally and theoretically, the effect of the cubic Rashba spin-orbit interaction on the mixing of the spin states by studying singlet-triplet oscillations in a planar Ge hole double quantum dot. Landau-Zener sweeps at different magnetic field directions allow us to disentangle the effects of the spin-orbit induced spin-flip term from those caused by strongly site-dependent and anisotropic quantum dot g tensors. Our work, therefore, provides new insights into the hole spin-orbit interaction, necessary for optimizing future qubit experiments.
The spin-orbit interaction permits to control the state of a spin qubit via electric fields. For holes it is particularly strong, allowing for fast all electrical qubit manipulation, and yet an in-depth understanding of this interaction in hole systems is missing. Here we investigate, experimentally and theoretically, the effect of the cubic Rashba spin-orbit interaction on the mixing of the spin states by studying singlet-triplet oscillations in a planar Ge hole double quantum dot. Landau-Zener sweeps at different magnetic field directions allow us to disentangle the effects of the spin-orbit induced spin-flip term from those caused by strongly site-dependent and anisotropic quantum dot g tensors. Our work, therefore, provides new insights into the hole spin-orbit interaction, necessary for optimizing future qubit experiments.
Conventional lattice formulations of θ vacua in the 1 þ 1-dimensional O(3) nonlinear sigma model suffer from a sign problem. Here, we construct the first sign-problem-free regularization for arbitrary θ. Using efficient lattice Monte Carlo algorithms, we demonstrate how a Hamiltonian model of spin-1 2 degrees of freedom on a two-dimensional spatial lattice reproduces both the infrared sector for arbitrary θ, as well as the ultraviolet physics of asymptotic freedom. Furthermore, as a model of qubits on a two-dimensional square lattice with only nearest-neighbor interactions, it is naturally suited for studying the physics of θ vacua and asymptotic freedom on near-term quantum devices. Our construction generalizes to θ vacua in all CPðN -1Þ models, solving a long-standing sign problem.
Unwanted ZZ interaction is a quantum-mechanical crosstalk phenomenon which correlates qubit dynamics and is ubiquitous in superconducting qubit systems. It adversely affects the quality of quantum operations and can be detrimental in scalable quantum information processing. Here we propose and experimentally demonstrate a practically extensible approach for complete cancellation of residual ZZ interaction between fixed-frequency transmon qubits, which are known for long coherence and simple control. We apply to the intermediate coupler that connects the qubits a weak microwave drive at a properly chosen frequency in order to noninvasively induce an ac Stark shift for ZZ cancellation. We verify the cancellation performance by measuring vanishing two-qubit entangling phases and ZZ correlations. In addition, we implement a randomized benchmarking experiment to extract the idling gate fidelity which shows good agreement with the coherence limit, demonstrating the effectiveness of ZZ cancellation. Our method allows independent addressability of each qubit-qubit connection and is applicable to both nontunable and tunable couplers, promising better compatibility with future large-scale quantum processors.
We describe a simple protocol for the single-step generation of N-body entangling interactions between trapped atomic ion qubits. We show that qubit state-dependent squeezing operations and displacement forces on the collective atomic motion can generate full N-body interactions. Similar to the Mølmer-Sørensen two-body Ising interaction at the core of most trapped ion quantum computers and simulators, the proposed operation is relatively insensitive to the state of motion. We show how this N-body gate operation allows for the single-step implementation of a family of N-bit gate operations such as the powerful N-Toffoli gate, which flips a single qubit if and only if all other N-1 qubits are in a particular state.
The most well-known tool for studying contextuality in quantum computation is the n-qubit Stabilizer state tableau representation. We provide an extension that not only describes the quantum state but is also outcome deterministic. The extension enables a value assignment to exponentially many Pauli observables, yet it remains quadratic in both memory and computational complexity. Furthermore, we show that the mechanisms employed for contextuality and measurement disturbance are wholly separate. The model will be useful for investigating the role of contextuality in n-qubit quantum computation.
We present a method for achieving high fidelity state preparation and measurement (SPAM) using trapped ion hyperfine qubits with nuclear spins higher than I ¼ 1=2. The ground states of these higher nuclear spin isotopes do not afford a simple frequency-selective state preparation scheme. We circumvent this limitation by stroboscopically driving strong and weak transitions, blending fast optical pumping using dipole transitions, and narrow microwave or optical quadrupole transitions. We demonstrate this method with the I ¼ 3=2 isotope 137 Ba þ to achieve a SPAM infidelity of ð9.0 AE 1.3Þ × 10 -5 (-40.5 AE 0.6 dB), facilitating the use of a wider range of ion isotopes with favorable wavelengths and masses for quantum computation.
Fractional quantum Hall states (FQHSs) exemplify exotic phases of low-disorder two-dimensional (2D) electron systems when electron-electron interaction dominates over the thermal and kinetic energies. Particularly intriguing among the FQHSs are those observed at even-denominator Landau level filling factors, as their quasiparticles are generally believed to obey non-Abelian statistics and be of potential use in topological quantum computing. Such states, however, are very rare and fragile, and are typically observed in the excited Landau level of 2D electron systems with the lowest amount of disorder. Here we report the observation of a new and unexpected even-denominator FQHS at filling factor ν ¼ 3=4 in a GaAs 2D hole system with an exceptionally high quality (mobility). Our magnetotransport measurements reveal a strong minimum in the longitudinal resistance at ν ¼ 3=4, accompanied by a developing Hall plateau centered at ðh=e 2 Þ=ð3=4Þ. This even-denominator FQHS is very unusual as it is observed in the lowest Landau level and in a 2D hole system. While its origin is unclear, it is likely a non-Abelian state, emerging from the residual interaction between composite fermions.
Magic sets of observables are minimal structures that capture quantum state-independent advantage for systems of n ≥ 2 qubits and are, therefore, fundamental tools for investigating the interface between classical and quantum physics. A theorem by Arkhipov (arXiv:1209.3819) states that n-qubit magic sets in which each observable is in exactly two subsets of compatible observables can be reduced either to the twoqubit magic square or the three-qubit magic pentagram [N. D. Mermin, Phys. Rev. Lett. 65, 3373 (1990)]. An open question is whether there are magic sets that cannot be reduced to the square or the pentagram. If they exist, a second key question is whether they require n > 3 qubits, since, if this is the case, these magic sets would capture minimal state-independent quantum advantage that is specific for n-qubit systems with specific values of n. Here, we answer both questions affirmatively. We identify magic sets that cannot be reduced to the square or the pentagram and require n ¼ 3, 4, 5, or 6 qubits. In addition, we prove a generalized version of Arkhipov's theorem providing an efficient algorithm for, given a hypergraph, deciding whether or not it can accommodate a magic set, and solve another open problem, namely, given a magic set, obtaining the tight bound of its associated noncontextuality inequality.
Uncertainty relations express limits on the extent to which the outcomes of distinct measurements on a single state can be made jointly predictable. The existence of nontrivial uncertainty relations in quantum theory is generally considered to be a way in which it entails a departure from the classical worldview. However, this perspective is undermined by the fact that there exist operational theories which exhibit nontrivial uncertainty relations but which are consistent with the classical worldview insofar as they admit of a generalized-noncontextual ontological model. This prompts the question of what aspects of uncertainty relations, if any, cannot be realized in this way and so constitute evidence of genuine nonclassicality. We here consider uncertainty relations describing the tradeoff between the predictability of a pair of binaryoutcome measurements (e.g., measurements of Pauli X and Pauli Z observables in quantum theory). We show that, for a class of theories satisfying a particular symmetry property, the functional form of this predictability tradeoff is constrained by noncontextuality to be below a linear curve. Because qubit quantum theory has the relevant symmetry property, the fact that its predictability tradeoff describes a section of a circle is a violation of this noncontextual bound, and therefore constitutes an example of how the functional form of an uncertainty relation can witness contextuality. We also deduce the implications for a selected group of operational foils to quantum theory and consider the generalization to three measurements.
We introduce a quantum control technique using polychromatic pulse trains, consisting of pulses with different carrier frequencies, i.e., different detunings with respect to the qubit transition frequency. We derive numerous polychromatic pulse trains, which generate broadband, narrowband, and passband excitation profiles for different target transition probabilities. This makes it possible to create high-fidelity excitation profiles which are either (i) robust to deviations in the experimental parameters, which is attractive for quantum computing, or (ii) more sensitive to such variations, which is attractive for crosstalk elimination and quantum sensing. The method is demonstrated experimentally using one of IBM's superconducting quantum processors, in a very good agreement between theory and experiment. These results demonstrate both the excellent coherence properties of the IBM qubits and the accuracy, robustness, and flexibility of the proposed quantum control technique. They also show that the detuning is a control parameter which is as efficient as the pulse phase that is commonly used in composite pulses. Hence the method opens a variety of perspectives for quantum control in areas where phase manipulation is difficult or inaccurate.
Recently, evidence has emerged in the topological superconductor Fe-chalcogenide FeTe 1-x Se x for time-reversal symmetry breaking (TRSB), the nature of which has strong implications on the Majorana zero modes (MZM) discovered in this system. It remains unclear, however, whether the TRSB resides in the topological surface state (TSS) or in the bulk, and whether it is due to an unconventional TRSB superconducting order parameter or an intertwined order. Here, by performing in superconducting FeTe 1-x Se x crystals both surface-magneto-optic-Kerr effect measurements using a Sagnac interferometer and bulk magnetic susceptibility measurements, we pinpoint the TRSB to the TSS, where we also detect a Dirac gap. Further, we observe surface TRSB in nonsuperconducting FeTe 1-x Se x of nominally identical composition, indicating that TRSB arises from an intertwined surface ferromagnetic (FM) order. The observed surface FM bears striking similarities to the two-dimensional (2D) FM found in 2D van der Waals crystals, and is highly sensitive to the exact chemical composition, thereby providing a means for optimizing the conditions for Majorana particles that are useful for robust quantum computing.
Recently, evidence has emerged in the topological superconductor Fe-chalcogenide FeTe 1-x Se x for time-reversal symmetry breaking (TRSB), the nature of which has strong implications on the Majorana zero modes (MZM) discovered in this system. It remains unclear, however, whether the TRSB resides in the topological surface state (TSS) or in the bulk, and whether it is due to an unconventional TRSB superconducting order parameter or an intertwined order. Here, by performing in superconducting FeTe 1-x Se x crystals both surface-magneto-optic-Kerr effect measurements using a Sagnac interferometer and bulk magnetic susceptibility measurements, we pinpoint the TRSB to the TSS, where we also detect a Dirac gap. Further, we observe surface TRSB in nonsuperconducting FeTe 1-x Se x of nominally identical composition, indicating that TRSB arises from an intertwined surface ferromagnetic (FM) order. The observed surface FM bears striking similarities to the two-dimensional (2D) FM found in 2D van der Waals crystals, and is highly sensitive to the exact chemical composition, thereby providing a means for optimizing the conditions for Majorana particles that are useful for robust quantum computing.
Quantum entanglement is an indispensable resource for implementing quantum information processing. The scale of quantum entanglement directly determines its quantum information processing capability. Therefore, it is of great importance to generate ultra-large-scale (ULS) quantum entanglement for the development of quantum information science and technology. Many efforts have been made to increase the scale of quantum entanglement. Recently, time-domain multiplexing has been introduced into continuousvariable (CV) quantum systems to greatly enlarge the scale of quantum entanglement. In this Letter, based on a time-delayed quantum interferometer, we theoretically propose and experimentally demonstrate a scheme for generating an ULS CV deterministic entanglement containing 2 × 20 400 optical modes. In addition, such ULS entanglement contains 81 596 squeezed modes. Our results provide a new platform for implementing ULS CV quantum information processing.
We extend the concept of dual unitary quantum gates introduced in Phys. Rev. Lett. 123, 210601 (2019)   to quantum lattice models in 2 þ 1 dimensions, by introducing and studying ternary unitary four-particle gates, which are unitary in time and both spatial dimensions. When used as building blocks of lattice models with periodic boundary conditions in time and space (corresponding to infinite temperature states), dynamical correlation functions exhibit a light ray structure. We also generalize solvable matrix product states introduced in Phys. Rev. B 101, 094304 (2020) to two spatial dimensions with cylindrical boundary conditions, by showing that the analogous solvable projected entangled pair states can be identified with matrix product unitaries. In the resulting tensor network for evaluating equal-time correlation functions, the bulk ternary unitary gates cancel out. We delineate and implement a numerical algorithm for computing such correlations by contracting the remaining tensors.
We extend the concept of dual unitary quantum gates introduced in Phys. Rev. Lett. 123, 210601 (2019)   to quantum lattice models in 2 þ 1 dimensions, by introducing and studying ternary unitary four-particle gates, which are unitary in time and both spatial dimensions. When used as building blocks of lattice models with periodic boundary conditions in time and space (corresponding to infinite temperature states), dynamical correlation functions exhibit a light ray structure. We also generalize solvable matrix product states introduced in Phys. Rev. B 101, 094304 (2020) to two spatial dimensions with cylindrical boundary conditions, by showing that the analogous solvable projected entangled pair states can be identified with matrix product unitaries. In the resulting tensor network for evaluating equal-time correlation functions, the bulk ternary unitary gates cancel out. We delineate and implement a numerical algorithm for computing such correlations by contracting the remaining tensors.
Recent breakthroughs have opened the possibility of intermediate-scale quantum computing with tens to hundreds of qubits, and shown the potential for solving classical challenging problems, such as in chemistry and condensed matter physics. However, the high accuracy needed to surpass classical computers poses a critical demand on the circuit depth, which is severely limited by the non-negligible gate infidelity, currently around 0.1%-1%. The limited circuit depth places restrictions on the performance of variational quantum algorithms (VQA) and prevents VQAs from exploring desired nontrivial quantum states. To resolve this problem, we propose a paradigm of Schrödinger-Heisenberg variational quantum algorithms (SHVQA). Using SHVQA, the expectation values of operators on states that require very deep circuits to prepare can now be efficiently measured by rather shallow circuits. The idea is to incorporate a virtual Heisenberg circuit, which acts effectively on the measurement observables, into a real shallow Schrödinger circuit, which is implemented realistically on the quantum hardware. We choose a Clifford virtual circuit, whose effect on the Hamiltonian can be seen as efficient classical processing. Yet, it greatly enlarges the state's expressivity, realizing much larger unitary t designs. Our method enables accurate quantum simulation and computation that otherwise are only achievable with much deeper circuits or more accurate operations conventionally. This has been verified in our numerical experiments for a better approximation of random states, higher-fidelity solutions to the XXZ model, and the electronic structure Hamiltonians of small molecules. Thus, together with effective quantum error mitigation, our work paves the way for realizing accurate quantum computing algorithms with near-term quantum devices.
133 Ba þ is illuminated by a laser that is far detuned from optical transitions, and the resulting spontaneous Raman scattering rate is measured. The observed scattering rate is lower than previous theoretical estimates. The majority of the discrepancy is explained by a more accurate treatment of the scattered photon density of states. This work establishes that, contrary to previous models, there is no fundamental atomic physics limit to laser-driven quantum gates from laser-induced spontaneous Raman scattering.
Treating the infinite-dimensional Hilbert space of non-Abelian gauge theories is an outstanding challenge for classical and quantum simulations. Here, we employ q-deformed Kogut-Susskind lattice gauge theories, obtained by deforming the defining symmetry algebra to a quantum group. In contrast to other formulations, this approach simultaneously provides a controlled regularization of the infinitedimensional local Hilbert space while preserving essential symmetry-related properties. This enables the development of both quantum as well as quantum-inspired classical spin-network algorithms for q-deformed gauge theories. To be explicit, we focus on SUð2Þ k gauge theories with k ∈ N that are controlled by the deformation parameter q ¼ e 2πi=ðkþ2Þ , a root of unity, and converge to the standard SU(2) Kogut-Susskind model as k → ∞. In particular, we demonstrate that this formulation is well suited for efficient tensor network representations by variational ground-state simulations in 2D, providing first evidence that the continuum limit can be reached with k ¼ Oð10Þ. Finally, we develop a scalable quantum algorithm for Trotterized real-time evolution by analytically diagonalizing the SUð2Þ k plaquette interactions. Our work gives a new perspective for the application of tensor network methods to highenergy physics and paves the way for quantum simulations of non-Abelian gauge theories far from equilibrium where no other methods are currently available.
All laser-driven entangling operations for trapped-ion qubits have hitherto been performed without control of the optical phase of the light field, which precludes independent tuning of the carrier and motional coupling. By placing 88 Sr þ ions in a λ ¼ 674 nm standing wave, whose relative position is controlled to ≈λ=100, we suppress the carrier coupling by a factor of 18, while coherently enhancing the spin-motion coupling. We experimentally demonstrate that the off-resonant carrier coupling imposes a speed limit for conventional traveling-wave Mølmer-Sørensen gates; we use the standing wave to surpass this limit and achieve a gate duration of 15 μs, restricted by the available laser power.
All laser-driven entangling operations for trapped-ion qubits have hitherto been performed without control of the optical phase of the light field, which precludes independent tuning of the carrier and motional coupling. By placing 88 Sr þ ions in a λ ¼ 674 nm standing wave, whose relative position is controlled to ≈λ=100, we suppress the carrier coupling by a factor of 18, while coherently enhancing the spin-motion coupling. We experimentally demonstrate that the off-resonant carrier coupling imposes a speed limit for conventional traveling-wave Mølmer-Sørensen gates; we use the standing wave to surpass this limit and achieve a gate duration of 15 μs, restricted by the available laser power.
Single-component fractional quantum Hall states (FQHSs) at even-denominator filling factors may host non-Abelian quasiparticles that are considered to be building blocks of topological quantum computers. Such states, however, are rarely observed in the lowest-energy Landau level, namely at filling factors ν < 1.
We propose a novel qubit architecture based on a planar c-axis Josephson junction between a thin flake d-wave superconductor, such as a high-T c cuprate Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8þx , and a conventional s-wave superconductor. When operated in the transmon regime the device-that we call "d mon"-becomes insensitive to offset charge fluctuations and, importantly, exhibits at the same time energy level spectrum with strong anharmonicity that is widely tunable through the device geometry and applied magnetic flux. Crucially, unlike previous qubit designs based on d-wave superconductors the proposed device operates in a regime where quasiparticles are fully gapped and can be therefore expected to achieve long coherence times.
Single-component fractional quantum Hall states (FQHSs) at even-denominator filling factors may host non-Abelian quasiparticles that are considered to be building blocks of topological quantum computers. Such states, however, are rarely observed in the lowest-energy Landau level, namely at filling factors ν < 1.
We propose and demonstrate a unified hierarchical method to measure n-point correlation functions that can be applied to driven, dissipative, or otherwise open or nonequilibrium quantum systems. In this method, the time evolution of the system is repeatedly interrupted by interacting an ancilla qubit with the system through a controlled operation, and measuring the ancilla immediately afterward. We discuss the robustness of this method as compared to other ancilla-based interferometric techniques (such as the Hadamard test), and highlight its advantages for near-term quantum simulations of open quantum systems. We implement the method on a quantum computer in order to measure single-particle Green's functions of a driven-dissipative fermionic system. This Letter shows that dynamical correlation functions for drivendissipative systems can be robustly measured with near-term quantum computers.
Simulators can realize novel phenomena by separating them from the complexities of a full physical implementation. Here, we put forward a scheme that can simulate the exotic statistics of DðS 3 Þ non-Abelian anyons with minimal resources. The qudit lattice representation of this planar code supports local encoding of DðS 3 Þ anyons. As a proof-of-principle demonstration, we employ a classical photonic simulator to encode a single qutrit and manipulate it to perform the fusion and braiding properties of non-Abelian DðS 3 Þ anyons. The photonic technology allows us to perform the required nonunitary operations with much higher fidelity than what can be achieved with current quantum computers. Our approach can be directly generalized to larger systems or to different anyonic models, thus enabling advances in the exploration of quantum error correction and fundamental physics alike.
Using spin-echo nuclear magnetic resonance in the model transverse field Ising system TmVO 4 , we show that low frequency quantum fluctuations at the quantum critical point have a very different effect on 51 V nuclear spins than classical low-frequency noise or fluctuations that arise at a finite temperature critical point. Spin echoes filter out the low-frequency classical noise but not the quantum fluctuations. This allows us to directly visualize the quantum critical fan and demonstrate the persistence of quantum fluctuations at the critical coupling strength in TmVO 4 to high temperatures in an experiment that remains transparent to finite temperature classical phase transitions. These results show that while dynamical decoupling schemes can be quite effective in eliminating classical noise in a qubit, a quantum critical environment may lead to rapid entanglement and decoherence.
We show that universal parity quantum computing employing a recently introduced constant depth decoding procedure is equivalent to measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) on a bipartite graph using only yz-plane measurements. We further show that any unitary MBQC using only yz-plane measurements must occur on a bipartite graph. These results have a number of consequences and open new research avenues for both frameworks.
We show that universal parity quantum computing employing a recently introduced constant depth decoding procedure is equivalent to measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) on a bipartite graph using only yz-plane measurements. We further show that any unitary MBQC using only yz-plane measurements must occur on a bipartite graph. These results have a number of consequences and open new research avenues for both frameworks.
We report on the coherent excitation of the ultranarrow 1 S 0 -3 P 2 magnetic quadrupole transition in 88 Sr. By confining atoms in a state insensitive optical lattice, we achieve excitation fractions of 97(1)% and observe linewidths as narrow as 58(1) Hz. With Ramsey spectroscopy, we find coherence times of 14(1) ms, which can be extended to 266(36) ms using a spin-echo sequence. We determine the lifetime of the 3 P 2 level for spontaneous emission of magnetic quadrupole radiation to be 110(31) min, confirming long-standing theoretical predictions. These results establish an additional clock transition in strontium and pave the way for applications of the metastable 3 P 2 state in quantum computing and quantum simulations.
We report on the coherent excitation of the ultranarrow 1 S 0 -3 P 2 magnetic quadrupole transition in 88 Sr. By confining atoms in a state insensitive optical lattice, we achieve excitation fractions of 97(1)% and observe linewidths as narrow as 58(1) Hz. With Ramsey spectroscopy, we find coherence times of 14(1) ms, which can be extended to 266(36) ms using a spin-echo sequence. We determine the lifetime of the 3 P 2 level for spontaneous emission of magnetic quadrupole radiation to be 110(31) min, confirming long-standing theoretical predictions. These results establish an additional clock transition in strontium and pave the way for applications of the metastable 3 P 2 state in quantum computing and quantum simulations.
We present an exact Ansatz for the eigenstate problem of mixed fermion-boson systems that can be implemented on quantum devices. Based on a generalization of the electronic contracted Schrödinger equation (CSE), our approach guides a trial wave function to the ground state of any arbitrary mixed Hamiltonian by directly measuring residuals of the mixed CSE on a quantum device. Unlike density functional and coupled cluster theories applied to electron-phonon or electron-photon systems, the accuracy of our approach is not limited by the unknown exchange-correlation functional or the uncontrolled form of the exponential Ansatz. To test the performance of the method, we study the Tavis-Cummings model, commonly used in polaritonic quantum chemistry. Our results demonstrate that the CSE is a powerful tool in the development of quantum algorithms for solving general fermion-boson many-body problems.
We present strong attacks against quantum key distribution schemes which use quantum memories and quantum gates to attack directly the final key. We analyze a specific attack of this type, for which we find the density matrices available to the eavesdropper and the optimal information which can be extracted from them. We prove security against this attack and discuss security against any attack allowed by the rules of quantum mechanics. [S0031-9007(97)02537
We provide fast algorithms for simulating many-body Fermi systems on a universal quantum computer. Both first and second quantized descriptions are considered, and the relative computational complexities are determined in each case. In order to accommodate fermions using a first quantized Hamiltonian, an efficient quantum algorithm for antisymmetrization is given. Finally, a simulation of the Hubbard model is discussed in detail.
We present the optimal local protocol to distill a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state from a single copy of any pure state of three qubits.
We introduce a classification of mixed three-qubit states, in which we define the classes of separable, biseparable, W , and Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. These classes are successively embedded into each other. We show that contrary to pure W -type states, the mixed W class is not of measure zero. We construct witness operators that detect the class of a mixed state. We discuss the conjecture that all entangled states with positive partial transpose (PPTES) belong to the W class. Finally, we present a new family of PPTES "edge" states with maximal ranks.
We propose a scalable procedure to generate superpositions of motional coherent states and also entangled vibronic states in N trapped ions. Beyond their fundamental importance, these states may be of interest for quantum information processing and may be used in experimental studies on decoherence.
We study a superconducting single-charge transistor, where the coherence of Cooper pair tunneling is destroyed by the coupling to a tunable dissipative environment. Sequential tunneling and cotunneling processes are analyzed to construct the shape of the conductance peaks and their dependence on the dissipation and temperature. Unexpected features are found due to a crossover between two distinct regimes, one "environment assisted" the other "environment dominated." Several of the predictions have been confirmed by recent experiments. The model and results apply also to the dynamics of Josephson junction quantum bits on a conducting ground plane, thus explaining the influence of dissipation on the coherence.
We quantify the capability of creating entanglement for a general physical interaction acting on two qubits. We give a procedure for optimizing the generation of entanglement. We also show that a Hamiltonian can create more entanglement if one uses auxiliary systems.
We report the creation of an entangled multiphoton quantum superposition by quantum injection of entangled 2-photon states into a parity selective parametric amplifier. The information preserving property of the state transformation suggests for these macrostates the name of large qubits. They are ideal objects for investigating the emergence of the classical world in complex quantum systems and have relevant new applications in quantum information.
The problem of distinguishing two unitary transformations, or quantum gates, is analyzed and a function reflecting their statistical distinguishability is found. Given two unitary operations, U 1 and U 2 , it is proved that there always exists a finite number N such that U ≠N 1 and U ≠N 2 are perfectly distinguishable, although they were not in the single-copy case. This result can be extended to any finite set of unitary transformations. Finally, a fidelity for one-qubit gates, which satisfies many useful properties from the point of view of quantum information theory, is presented.
We present a solution to an old problem in distributed computing. In its simplest form, a sender has to broadcast some information to two receivers, but they have access only to pairwise communication channels. Unlike quantum key distribution, here the goal is not secrecy but agreement, and the adversary (one of the receivers or the sender himself) is not outside but inside the game. Using only classical channels this problem is provably impossible. The solution uses pairwise quantum channels and entangled qutrits.
We propose a quantum algorithm which uses the number of qubits in an optimal way and efficiently simulates a physical model with rich and complex dynamics described by the quantum sawtooth map. The numerical study of the effect of static imperfections in the quantum computer hardware shows that the main elements of the phase space structures are accurately reproduced up to a time scale which is polynomial in the number of qubits. The errors generated by these imperfections are more significant than the errors of random noise in gate operations.
We analyze possible implementations of quantum algorithms in a system of (macroscopic) Josephson charge qubits. System layout and parameters to realize the Deutsch algorithm with up to three qubits are provided. Special attention is paid to the necessity of entangled states in the various implementations. Further, we demonstrate explicitly that the gates to implement the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm can be realized by using a system of uncoupled qubits.
We have measured transport in the Coulomb blockade regime through a quantum system consisting of two superconducting islands coupled by a Josephson junction. The double island is weakly connected to leads by small superconducting tunnel junctions. At low bias voltages, a new resonant transport process for Cooper pairs is observed. The results show that Cooper pair transport can be used as a probe of the macroscopic energy levels of the double island.
If the interaction between qubits is not diagonal in the computational basis (e.g., the Heisenberg interaction), then one must be able to "switch it off " in order to prevent uncontrolled propagation of states. Therefore, schemes for quantum computing typically demand local control of the interaction strength between each pair of neighboring qubits. Here we demonstrate that this degree of control is not necessary: it suffices to switch the interaction collectively, something that can in principle be achieved by global fields rather than with local manipulations. This observation may offer a significant simplification for various implementations, including solid state and optical lattice schemes.
We calculate the spectral density of voltage fluctuations in a single-electron transistor (SET), biased to operate in a transport mode where tunneling events are correlated due to Coulomb interaction. The whole spectrum from low frequency shot noise to quantum noise at frequencies comparable to the SET charging energy ͑E C ͞ h͒ is considered. We discuss the back-action during readout of a charge qubit and conclude that single-shot readout is possible using the radio-frequency SET.
We investigate the entanglement of a two-qubit anisotropic Heisenberg XY chain in thermal equilibrium at temperature T in the presence of an external magnetic field B along the z axis. By means of the combined influences of anisotropic interactions and a magnetic field B, one is able to produce entanglement for any finite T , by adjusting the magnetic field strength. This contrasts with the isotropic interaction or the B 0 cases, for which there is no entanglement above a critical temperature T c that is independent of the external B field.
We consider two quantum cryptographic schemes relying on encoding the key into qudits, i.e., quantum states in a d-dimensional Hilbert space. The first cryptosystem uses two mutually unbiased bases (thereby extending the BB84 scheme), while the second exploits all d 1 1 available such bases (extending the six-state protocol for qubits). We derive the information gained by a potential eavesdropper applying a cloning-based individual attack, along with an upper bound on the error rate that ensures unconditional security against coherent attacks.
We derive a single general Bell inequality which is a sufficient and necessary condition for the correlation function for N particles to be describable in a local and realistic picture, for the case in which measurements on each particle can be chosen between two arbitrary dichotomic observables. We also derive a necessary and sufficient condition for an arbitrary N-qubit mixed state to violate this inequality. This condition is a generalization and reformulation of the Horodecki family condition for two qubits.
We study a two-electron quantum dot molecule in a magnetic field by the direct diagonalization of the Hamiltonian matrix. The ground states of the molecule with the total spin S 0 and S 1 provide a possible realization for a qubit of a quantum computer. Switching between the states is best achieved by changing the magnetic field. Based on an analysis of the wave function, we show that the system consists of composite particles formed by an electron and flux quanta attached to it. This picture can also be used to explain the spin phase diagram.
We propose and study a model of dephasing due to an environment of bistable fluctuators. We apply our analysis to the decoherence of Josephson qubits, induced by background charges present in the substrate, which are also responsible for the 1͞f noise. The discrete nature of the environment leads to a number of new features which are mostly pronounced for slowly moving charges. Far away from the degeneracy this model for the dephasing is solved exactly.
We consider a one-dimensional superconducting wire where the total number of electrons can be controlled in the Coulomb blockade regime. We predict that a p soliton (kink) will spontaneously form in the system when the number of electrons is odd, because this configuration has a lower energy. If the wire with an odd number of electrons is closed in a ring, the phase difference on the two sides of the soliton will generate a supercurrent detectable by a SQUID. The two degenerate states with the current flowing clockwise or counterclockwise can be utilized as a qubit.
We compute the entanglement cost of several families of bipartite mixed states, including arbitrary mixtures of two Bell states. This is achieved by developing a technique that allows us to ascertain the additivity of the entanglement of formation for any state supported on specific subspaces. As a side result, the proof of the irreversibility in asymptotic local manipulations of entanglement is extended to two-qubit systems.
We study when a nonlocal unitary operation acting on two d-level systems can probabilistically simulate another one when arbitrary local operations and classical communication are allowed. We provide necessary and sufficient conditions for the simulation to be possible. Probabilistic interconvertability is used to define an equivalence relation between gates. We show that this relation induces a finite number of classes that we identify. In the case of two qubits, two classes of nonlocal operations exist. We show how the representatives of these classes, CNOT and SWAP, can be deterministically converted into any operation of its class and calculate the optimal probability of the reverse process.
We experimentally demonstrate novel structures for the realization of registers of atomic qubits: We trap neutral atoms in one-and two-dimensional arrays of far-detuned dipole traps obtained by focusing a red-detuned laser beam with a microfabricated array of microlenses. We are able to selectively address individual trap sites due to their large lateral separation of 125 m. We initialize and read out different internal states for the individual sites. We also create two interleaved sets of trap arrays with adjustable separation, as required for many proposed implementations of quantum gate operations.
A novel secure communication protocol is presented, based on an entangled pair of qubits and allowing asymptotically secure key distribution and quasisecure direct communication. Since the information is transferred in a deterministic manner, no qubits have to be discarded. The transmission of information is instantaneous, i.e., the information can be decoded during the transmission. The security against arbitrary eavesdropping attacks is provided. In case of eavesdropping attacks with full information gain, the detection rate is 50% per control transmission. The experimental realization of the protocol is feasible with relatively small effort, which also makes commercial applications conceivable.
We propose a quantum device that can approximate any projective measurement on a qubit -a quantum ''multimeter.'' The desired measurement basis is selected by the quantum state of a ''program register.'' Two different kinds of programs are considered and in both cases the device is optimized with respect to maximal average fidelity (assuming uniform distribution of measurement bases). Quantum multimeters exhibiting the covariance property are introduced and an optimal covariant multimeter with a single-qubit program register is found. Possible experimental realization of the simplest proposed device is presented.
We present the optimal scheme for estimating a pure qubit state by means of local measurements on N identical copies. We give explicit examples for low N. For large N, we show that the fidelity saturates the collective measurement bound up to order 1=N. When the signal state lays on a meridian of the Bloch sphere, we show that this can be achieved without classical communication.
As mentioned in the Letter, the dynamic phase accumulated in the whole process may be removed by some methods. However, a general condition of the two-loop approach addressed in the Letter, i.e., B2 ÿ t ÿBt, is not appropriate for geometric quantum computation; the total geometric AA phase is not simply doubled under the condition. Note that an appropriate removal procedure of the dynamic phase with the two-loop method is now demonstrated explicitly in Ref. 
We study the low energy states of finite spin chains with isotropic (Heisenberg) and anisotropic (XY and Ising-like) antiferromagnetic exchange interaction with uniform and nonuniform coupling constants. We show that for an odd number of sites a spin cluster qubit can be defined in terms of the ground state doublet. This qubit is remarkably insensitive to the placement and coupling anisotropy of spins within the cluster. One-and two-qubit quantum gates can be generated by magnetic fields and intercluster exchange, and leakage during quantum gate operation is small. Spin cluster qubits inherit the long decoherence times and short gate operation times of single spins. Control of single spins is hence not necessary for the realization of universal quantum gates.
We extend the off-diagonal geometric phase [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 3067 (2000)] to mixed quantal states. The nodal structure of this phase in the qubit (two-level) case is compared with that of the diagonal mixed state geometric phase [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2845 (2000)]. Extension to higher dimensional Hilbert spaces is delineated. A physical scenario for the off-diagonal mixed state geometric phase in polarization-entangled two-photon interferometry is proposed.
We show that thresholds for fault-tolerant quantum computation are solely determined by the quality of single-system operations if one allows for d-dimensional systems with 8 d 32. Each system serves to store one logical qubit and additional auxiliary dimensions are used to create and purify entanglement between systems. Physical, possibly probabilistic two-system operations with error rates up to 2=3 are still tolerable to realize deterministic high-quality two-qubit gates on the logical qubits. The achievable error rate is of the same order of magnitude as of the single-system operations. We investigate possible implementations of our scheme for several physical setups.
We report the realization of a nuclear magnetic resonance computer with three quantum bits that simulates an adiabatic quantum optimization algorithm. Adiabatic quantum algorithms offer new insight into how quantum resources can be used to solve hard problems. This experiment uses a particularly well-suited three quantum bit molecule and was made possible by introducing a technique that encodes general instances of the given optimization problem into an easily applicable Hamiltonian.
All the states of N qubits can be classified into N ÿ 1 entanglement classes from 2-entangled to N-entangled (fully entangled) states. Each class of entangled states is characterized by an entanglement index that depends on the partition of N. The larger the entanglement index of a state, the more entangled or the less separable is the state in the sense that a larger maximal violation of Bell's inequality is attainable for this class of state.
We show how it is possible to realize quantum computations on a system in which most of the parameters are practically unknown. We illustrate our results with a novel implementation of a quantum computer by means of bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. In particular, we show how a universal set of gates can be carried out even if the number of atoms per site is uncertain.
Using optical Ramsey interferometry, we precisely measure the laser-induced ac-Stark shift on the S 1=2 -D 5=2 ''quantum bit'' transition near 729 nm in a single trapped 40 Ca ion. We cancel this shift using an additional laser field. This technique is of particular importance for the implementation of quantum information processing with cold trapped ions. As a simple application we measure the atomic phase evolution during a n 2 rotation of the quantum bit.
We report on the preparation and detection of entangled states between an electron spin 1=2 and a nuclear spin 1=2 in a molecular single crystal. These were created by applying pulses at ESR (9.5 GHz) and NMR (21 MHz, 46 MHz) frequencies. Entanglement was detected by using a special entanglement detector sequence based on a unitary back transformation including phase rotation.
In the 1987 spin-retrodiction puzzle of Vaidman, Aharonov, and Albert one is challenged to ascertain the values of x , y , and z of a spin-1 2 particle by utilizing entanglement. We report the experimental realization of a quantum-optical version in which the outcome of an intermediate polarization projection is inferred by exploiting single-photon two-qubit quantum gates. The experimental success probability is consistently above the 90:2% threshold of the optimal one-qubit strategy, with an average success probability of 95:6%.
We show that particle transport, as characterized by the equilibrium mean square displacement, in a uniform, quantum multibaker map, is generically ballistic in the long time limit, for any fixed value of Planck's constant. However, for fixed times, the semiclassical limit leads to diffusion. Random matrix theory provides explicit analytical predictions for the mean square displacement of a particle in the system. These results exhibit a crossover from diffusive to ballistic motion, with crossover time on the order of the inverse of Planck's constant. We expect that, for a large class of 1D quantum random walks similar to the quantum multibaker, a sufficient condition for diffusion in the semiclassical limit is classically chaotic dynamics in each cell. The systems described generalize known quantum random walks and may have applications for quantum computation.
The implementation of a quantum computer requires the realization of a large number of N-qubit unitary operations which represent the possible oracles or which are part of the quantum algorithm. Until now there have been no standard ways to uniformly generate whole classes of N-qubit gates. We develop a method to generate arbitrary controlled phase-shift operations with a single network of onequbit and two-qubit operations. This kind of network can be adapted to various physical implementations of quantum computing and is suitable to realize the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm as well as Grover's search algorithm.
The geometric phase for a pure quantal state undergoing an arbitrary evolution is a ''memory'' of the geometry of the path in the projective Hilbert space of the system. We find that Uhlmann's geometric phase for a mixed quantal state undergoing unitary evolution depends not only on the geometry of the path of the system alone but also on a constrained bilocal unitary evolution of the purified entangled state. We analyze this in general, illustrate it for the qubit case, and propose an experiment to test this effect. We also show that the mixed state geometric phase proposed recently in the context of interferometry requires unilocal transformations and is therefore essentially a property of the system alone.
We discuss the problem of a spin 1=2 impurity immersed in a spin S magnetically ordered background. We show that the problem maps onto a generalization of the dissipative two level system with two independent heat baths, associated with the Goldstone modes of the magnet, that couple to different components of the impurity spin operator. Using analytical perturbative renormalization group methods and accurate numerical renormalization group we show that contrary to other dissipative models there is quantum frustration of decoherence and quasiscaling even in the strong coupling regime. We make predictions for the behavior of the impurity magnetic susceptibility. Our results may also have relevance to quantum computation.
We propose a new concept for a two-qubit gate operating on a pair of trapped ions based on laser coherent control techniques. The gate is insensitive to the temperature of the ions, works also outside the Lamb-Dicke regime, requires no individual addressing by lasers, and can be orders of magnitude faster than the trap period, which is presently the speed limit of all two-qubit proposals.
We study the problem of secret key distillation from bipartite states in the scenario where Alice and Bob can perform measurements only at the single-copy level and classically process the obtained outcomes. Even with these limitations, secret bits can be asymptotically distilled by the honest parties from any two-qubit entangled state, under any individual attack. Our results point out a complete equivalence between two-qubit entanglement and secure key distribution: a key can be established through a one-qubit channel if and only if it allows one to distribute entanglement. These results can be generalized to a higher dimension for all those states that are one-copy distillable.
A quantum dot spin light emitting diode provides a test of carrier spin injection into a qubit and a means for analyzing carrier spin injection and local spin polarization. Even with 100% spin-polarized carriers the emitted light may be only partially circularly polarized due to the geometry of the dot. We have calculated carrier polarization-dependent optical matrix elements for InAs=GaAs self-assembled quantum dots (SAQDs) for electron and hole spin injection into a range of quantum dot sizes and shapes, and for arbitrary emission directions. Calculations for typical SAQD geometries with emission along 110 show light that is only 5% circularly polarized for spin states that are 100% polarized along 110. Measuring along the growth direction gives near unity conversion of spin to photon polarization and is the least sensitive to uncertainties in SAQD geometry.
It is usually argued that the presence of gapless quasiparticle excitations at the nodes of the d-wave superconducting gap should strongly decohere the quantum states of a d-wave qubit, making quantum effects practically unobservable. Using a self-consistent linear response nonequilibrium quasiclassical formalism, we show that this is not necessarily true. We find quasiparticle conductance of a d-wave grain boundary junction to be strongly phase dependent. Midgap states as well as nodal quasiparticles contribute to the conductance and therefore decoherence. Quantum behavior is estimated to be detectable in a qubit containing a d-wave junction with appropriate parameters.
We calculate the geometric phase of a spin-1=2 system driven by one and two mode quantum fields subject to decoherence. Using the quantum jump approach, we show that the corrections to the phase in the no-jump trajectory are different when considering adiabatic and nonadiabatic evolutions. We discuss the implications of our results from both fundamental as well as quantum computational perspectives.
Electron spin qubits in semiconductors are attractive from the viewpoint of long coherence times. However, single spin measurement is challenging. Several promising schemes incorporate ancillary tunnel couplings that may provide unwanted channels for decoherence. Here, we propose a novel spincharge transduction scheme, converting spin information to orbital information within a single quantum dot by microwave excitation. The same quantum dot can be used for rapid initialization, gating, and readout. We present detailed modeling of such a device in silicon to confirm its feasibility.
We study numerically the effects of measurements on dynamical localization in the kicked rotator model simulated on a quantum computer. Contrary to the previous studies, which showed that measurements induce a diffusive probability spreading, our results demonstrate that localization can be preserved for repeated single-qubit measurements. We detect a transition from a localized to a delocalized phase, depending on the system parameters and on the choice of the measured qubit.
In this Letter, we present a method for increasing the coherence time of praseodymium hyperfine ground state transitions in Pr 3 :Y 2 SiO 5 by the application of a specific external magnetic field. The magnitude and angle of the external field is applied such that the Zeeman splitting of a hyperfine transition is at a critical point in three dimensions, making the first order Zeeman shift vanishingly small for the transition. This reduces the influence of the magnetic interactions between the praseodymium ions and the spins in the host lattice on the transition frequency. Using this method a phase memory time of 82 ms was observed, a value 2 orders of magnitude greater than previously reported. It is shown that the residual dephasing is amenable to quantum error correction.
We report on the experimental observation of the three-photon polarization-entangled W state using spontaneous parametric down-conversion. This state is inequivalent to the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state under stochastic local operations and classical communications and thus is the representative of the second class of genuine tripartite entanglement. We study the characteristic features of entanglement and demonstrate the high degree of two-photon entanglement in the W state.
We present the experimental detection of genuine multipartite entanglement using entanglement witness operators. To this aim, we introduce a canonical way of constructing and decomposing witness operators so that they can be directly implemented with present technology. We apply this method to three-and four-qubit entangled states of polarized photons, giving experimental evidence that the considered states contain true multipartite entanglement.
We derive a family of necessary separability criteria for finite-dimensional systems based on inequalities for variances of observables. We show that every pure bipartite entangled state violates some of these inequalities. Furthermore, a family of bound entangled states and true multipartite entangled states can be detected. The inequalities also allow us to distinguish between different classes of true tripartite entanglement for qubits. We formulate an equivalent criterion in terms of covariance matrices. This allows us to apply criteria known from the regime of continuous variables to finitedimensional systems.
We investigate the capability of dynamical decoupling techniques to reduce decoherence from a realistic environment generating 1=f noise. The predominance of low frequency modes in the noise profile allows for decoherence scenarios where relatively slow control rates suffice for a drastic improvement. However, the actual figure of merit is very sensitive to the details of the dynamics, with decoupling performance which may deteriorate for non-Gaussian noise and/or high frequency working points. Our results are promising for robust solid-state qubits and beyond.
Cross sections resulting from scattering that proceeds via an intermediate resonance are shown to be exceptionally controllable using a coherent superposition of only two initial states. Full quantum computations on FHDv 0; j 0; 1 ! HDF, DHF, which exhibits a resonance in one of the reactive channels, support the formal arguments, showing that control is indeed vast. In this case the ratio of reactive integral cross sections can be altered by a factor of 62 (compared to a noncoherent factor of only 3.3), while the ratio of reactive differential cross sections can be altered by a factor of over 6000 (compared to a noncoherent factor of less than 7). These results constitute the first prediction of extensive quantum control in a collisional process.
Optimal implementation of quantum gates is crucial for designing a quantum computer. We consider the matrix representation of an arbitrary multiqubit gate. By ordering the basis vectors using the Gray code, we construct the quantum circuit which is optimal in the sense of fully controlled single-qubit gates and yet is equivalent with the multiqubit gate. In the second step of the optimization, superfluous control bits are eliminated, which eventually results in a smaller total number of the elementary gates. In our scheme the number of controlled NOT gates is O4 n which coincides with the theoretical lower bound.
Arbitrary atomic Bell states with two trapped ions are generated in a deterministic and preprogrammed way. The resulting entanglement is quantitatively analyzed using various measures of entanglement. For this, we reconstruct the density matrix using single qubit rotations and subsequent measurements with near-unity detection efficiency. This procedure represents the basic building block for future process tomography of quantum computations. As a first application, the temporal decay of entanglement is investigated in detail. We observe ultralong lifetimes for the Bell states , close to the fundamental limit set by the spontaneous emission from the metastable upper qubit level and longer than all reported values by 3 orders of magnitude.
We show how many-body ground state entanglement information may be extracted from subsystem energy measurements at zero temperature. Generically, the larger the measured energy fluctuations are, the larger the entanglement is. Examples are given with the two-state system and the harmonic oscillator. Comparisons made with recent qubit experiments show that this type of measurement provides another method to quantify entanglement with the environment.
We construct a Bell inequality for coincidence probabilities on a three three-dimensional (qutrit) system. We show that this inequality is violated when each observer measures two noncommuting observables, defined by the so-called unbiased six-port beam splitter, on a maximally entangled state of two qutrits. The strength of the violation agrees with the numerical results presented by Kaszlikowski et al. , quant-ph/0202019. It is proven that the inequality defines facets of the polytope of local variable models.
A kinematic approach to the geometric phase for mixed quantal states in nonunitary evolution is proposed. This phase is manifestly gauge invariant and can be experimentally tested in interferometry. It leads to well-known results when the evolution is unitary.
We consider electron spin qubits in quantum dots and define a measurement efficiency e to characterize reliable measurements via n-shot readouts. We propose various implementations based on a double dot and a quantum point contact (QPC) and show that the associated efficiencies e vary between 50% and 100%, allowing single-shot readout in the latter case. We model the readout microscopically and derive its time dynamics in terms of a generalized master equation, calculate the QPC current, and show that it allows spin readout under realistic conditions.
This Letter presents the first rigorous proof of the conjecture raised by Gisin and Bechmann-Pasquinucci [Phys. Lett. A 246, 1 (1998)], that the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states of n qubits and the states obtained from them by local unitary transformations are the unique states that maximally violate the Bell-Klyshko inequalities. The proof is obtained by using the certain algebraic properties that Pauli's matrices satisfy and some subtle mathematical techniques. Since all states obtained by local unitary transformations of a maximally entangled state are equally valid entangled states, we thus give a characterization of maximally entangled states of n qubits in terms of the Bell-type inequality.
We consider a generic elementary gate sequence which is needed to implement a general quantum gate acting on n qubits-a unitary transformation with 4 n degrees of freedom. For synthesizing the gate sequence, a method based on the so-called cosine-sine matrix decomposition is presented. The result is optimal in the number of elementary one-qubit gates, 4 n , and scales more favorably than the previously reported decompositions requiring 4 n ÿ 2 n1 controlled NOT gates.
We report the experimental realization of the purification protocol for single qubits sent through a depolarizing channel. The qubits are associated with polarization states of single photons and the protocol is achieved by means of passive linear optical elements. The present approach may represent a convenient alternative to the distillation and error correction protocols of quantum information.
We report experimental distribution of time-bin entangled qubits over 50 km of optical fibers. Using actively stabilized preparation and measurement devices we demonstrate violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt Bell inequality by more than 15 standard deviations without removing the detector noise. In addition we report a proof-of principle experiment of quantum key distribution over 50 km of optical fibers using entangled photon.
We have prepared combined electron and nuclear spin pseudoentangled states 27 and 18 out of the total number of eight quantum states in the multilevel quantum system of a nitrogen atom with electron spin 3=2 and nuclear spin 1=2 encaged in the endohedral fullerene 15 N@C 60 . Density matrix tomography was applied to verify the degree of entanglement.
A suitable sequence of sharp pulses applied to a spin coupled to a bosonic bath can cool its state, i.e., increase its polarization or ground state occupation probability. Starting from an unpolarized state of the spin in equilibrium with the bath, one can reach very low temperatures or sizable polarizations within a time shorter than the decoherence time. Both the bath and external fields are necessary for the effect, which comes from the backreaction of the spin on the bath. This method can be applied to cool at once a disordered ensemble of spins.
We study the quantum mechanical behavior of a macroscopic, three-body, superconducting circuit. Microwave spectroscopy on our system, a resonator coupling two large Josephson junctions, produced complex energy spectra well explained by quantum theory over a large frequency range. By tuning each junction separately into resonance with the resonator, we first observe strong coupling between each junction and the resonator. Bringing both junctions together into resonance with the resonator, we find spectroscopic evidence for entanglement between all 3 degrees of freedom and suggest a new method for controllable coupling of distant qubits, a key step toward quantum computation.
We present entanglement witness operators for detecting genuine multipartite entanglement. These witnesses are robust against noise and require only two local measurement settings when used in an experiment, independent of the number of qubits. This allows detection of entanglement for an increasing number of parties without a corresponding increase in effort. The witnesses presented detect states close to Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger, cluster, and graph states. Connections to Bell inequalities are also discussed.
We propose a teleportation scheme that relies only on single-photon measurements and Faraday rotation, for teleportation of many-qubit entangled states stored in the electron spins of a quantum dot system. The interaction between a photon and the two electron spins, via Faraday rotation in microcavities, establishes Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger entanglement in the spin-photon-spin system. The appropriate single-qubit measurements, and the communication of two classical bits, produce teleportation. This scheme provides the essential link between spintronic and photonic quantum information devices by permitting quantum information to be exchanged between them.
We propose a physically realizable machine which can either generate multiparticle W-like states, or implement high-fidelity 1 ! M (M 1; 2; 1) anticloning of an arbitrary qubit state, in a single step. This universal machine acts as a catalyst in that it is unchanged after either procedure, effectively resetting itself for its next operation. It possesses an inherent immunity to decoherence. Most importantly in terms of practical multiparty quantum communication, the machine's robustness in the presence of decoherence actually increases as the number of qubits M increases.
Understanding the mechanisms controlling the spin coherence of electrons in semiconductors is essential for designing structures for quantum computing applications. Using a pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance spectrometer, we measure spin echoes and deduce a spin coherence time (T 2 ) of up to 3 s for an ensemble of free two-dimensional electrons confined in a Si=SiGe quantum well. The decoherence can be understood in terms of momentum scattering causing fluctuating effective Rashba fields. Further confining the electrons into a nondegenerate (other than spin) ground state of a quantum dot can be expected to eliminate this decoherence mechanism.
The Pfaffian state is an attractive candidate for the observed quantized Hall plateau at a Landau-level filling fraction 5=2. This is particularly intriguing because this state has unusual topological properties, including quasiparticle excitations with non-Abelian braiding statistics. In order to determine the nature of the 5=2 state, one must measure the quasiparticle braiding statistics. Here, we propose an experiment which can simultaneously determine the braiding statistics of quasiparticle excitations and, if they prove to be non-Abelian, produce a topologically protected qubit on which a logical NOT operation is performed by quasiparticle braiding. Using the measured excitation gap at 5=2, we estimate the error rate to be 10 ÿ30 or lower.
We propose the entanglement potential (EP) as a measure of nonclassicality for quantum states of a single-mode electromagnetic field. It is the amount of two-mode entanglement that can be generated from the field using linear optics, auxiliary classical states, and ideal photodetectors. The EP detects nonclassicality, has a direct physical interpretation, and can be computed efficiently. These three properties together make it stand out from previously proposed nonclassicality measures. We derive closed expressions for the EP of important classes of states and analyze as an example of the degradation of nonclassicality in lossy channels.
The ground state of highly damped PdNi based 0-ferromagnetic Josephson junctions shows a spontaneous half quantum vortex, sustained by a supercurrent of undetermined sign. This supercurrent flows in the electrode of a Josephson junction used as a detector and produces a 0 =4 shift in its magnetic diffraction pattern. We have measured the statistics of the positive or the negative sign shift occurring at the superconducting transition of such a junction. The randomness of the shift sign, the reproducibility of its magnitude, and the possibility of achieving exact flux compensation upon field cooling are the features which show that 0-junctions behave as classical spins, just as magnetic nanoparticles with uniaxial anisotropy.
We report the results of coincidence counting experiments at the output, of a Michelson interferometer using the zero-phonon-line emission of a single molecule at 1.4 K. Under continuous wave excitation, we observe the absence of coincidence counts as an indication of two-photon interference. This corresponds to the observation of Hong-Ou-Mandel correlations and proves the suitability of the zero-phonon-line emission of single molecules for applications in linear optics quantum computation.
Scalability of a quantum computation requires that the information be processed on multiple subsystems. However, it is unclear how the complexity of a quantum algorithm, quantified by the number of entangling gates, depends on the subsystem size. We examine the quantum circuit complexity for exactly universal computation on many d-level systems (qudits). Both a lower bound and a constructive upper bound on the number of two-qudit gates result, proving a sharp asymptotic of d 2n gates. This closes the complexity question for all d-level systems (d finite). The optimal asymptotic applies to systems with locality constraints, e.g., nearest neighbor interactions.
We show how realistic charge manipulation and measurement techniques, combined with the exchange interaction, allow for the robust generation and purification of four-particle spin entangled states in electrically controlled semiconductor quantum dots. The generated states are immunized to the dominant sources of noise via a dynamical decoherence-free subspace; all additional errors are corrected by a purification protocol. This approach may find application in quantum computation, communication, and metrology.
Genuine 3-qubit entanglement comes in two different inconvertible types represented by the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state and the W state. We describe a specific method based on local positive operator valued measures and classical communication that can convert the ideal N-qubit GHZ state to a state arbitrarily close to the ideal N-qubit W state. We then experimentally implement this scheme in the 3-qubit case and characterize the input and the final state using 3-photon quantum state tomography.
We describe a new experimental approach to probabilistic atom-photon (signal) entanglement. Two qubit states are encoded as orthogonal collective spin excitations of an unpolarized atomic ensemble. After a programmable delay, the atomic excitation is converted into a photon (idler). Polarization states of both the signal and the idler are recorded and are found to be in violation of the Bell inequality. Atomic coherence times exceeding several microseconds are achieved by switching off all the trapping fieldsincluding the quadrupole magnetic field of the magneto-optical trap-and zeroing out the residual ambient magnetic field.
A theoretical interpretation of the recent experiments of Astafiev et al. on the T 1 -relaxation rate in Josephson charge qubits is proposed. The experimentally observed reproducible nonmonotonic dependence of T 1 on the splitting E J of the qubit levels suggests further specification of the previously proposed models of the background charge noise. From our point of view the most promising is the ''Andreev fluctuator'' model of the noise. In this model the fluctuator is a Cooper pair that tunnels from a superconductor and occupies a pair of localized electronic states. Within this model one can naturally explain both the average linear T 1 E J dependence and the irregular fluctuations.
In our Letter 
An application of quantum cloning to optimally interface a quantum system with a classical observer is presented; in particular, we describe a procedure to perform a minimal disturbance measurement on a single qubit by adopting a 1 ! 2 cloning machine followed by a generalized measurement on a single clone and the anticlone or on the two clones. Such a scheme can be applied to enhance the transmission fidelity over a lossy quantum channel.
Solid-state qubits have the potential for the large-scale integration and for the flexibility of layout for quantum computing. However, their short decoherence time due to the coupling to the environment remains an important problem to be overcome. We propose a new superconducting qubit which incorporates a spin-electronic device: the qubit consists of a superconducting ring with a ferromagnetic junction which has a metallic contact and a normal Josephson junction with an insulating barrier. Thus, a quantum coherent two-level state is formed without an external magnetic field. This feature and the simple structure of the qubit make it possible to reduce its size leading to a long decoherence time.
We propose and study an active cooling mechanism for the nanomechanical resonator (NAMR) based on periodical coupling to a Cooper pair box (CPB), which is implemented by a designed series of magnetic flux pluses threading through the CPB. When the initial phonon number of the NAMR is not too large, this cooling protocol is efficient in decreasing the phonon number by 2 to 3 orders of magnitude. Our proposal is theoretically universal in cooling various boson systems of a single mode. It can be specifically generalized to prepare the nonclassical state of the NAMR.
Unfortunately, a mistake in the mathematical description of the action of spontaneous emission errors in the quantum trajectories picture led us to the construction of a wrong recovery procedure for our code in Ref. [1]. Fortunately, a correct recovery procedure exists; the new procedure, while more demanding, does not require any physical resources besides those already outlined in Ref. [1], and the results of the Letter remain intact, requiring small modifications as we now describe.
We present a scheme for a projective measurement of the parity operator P z Q N i1 i z of N qubits. Our protocol uses a single ancillary qubit, or a probe qubit, and involves manipulations of the total spin of the N qubits without requiring individual addressing. We illustrate our protocol in terms of an experimental implementation with atomic ions in a two-zone linear Paul trap, and further discuss its extensions to several more general cases.
We consider the deterministic generation of entangled multiqubit states by the sequential coupling of an ancillary system to initially uncorrelated qubits. We characterize all achievable states in terms of classes of matrix-product states and give a recipe for the generation on demand of any multiqubit state. The proposed methods are suitable for any sequential generation scheme, though we focus on streams of single-photon time-bin qubits emitted by an atom coupled to an optical cavity. We show, in particular, how to generate familiar quantum information states such as W, Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger, and cluster states within such a framework.
Given a large number N of copies of a qubit state of which we wish to estimate its purity, we prove that separable-measurement protocols can be as efficient as the optimal joint-measurement one if classical communication is used. This shows that the optimal estimation of the entanglement of a two-qubit state can also be achieved asymptotically with fully separable measurements. Thus, quantum memories provide no advantage in this situation. The relationship between our global Bayesian approach and the quantum Crame ´r-Rao bound is discussed.
We investigate the nonlocal properties of graph states. To this aim, we derive a family of Bell inequalities which require three measurement settings for each party and are maximally violated by graph states. In turn, for each graph state there is an inequality maximally violated only by that state. We show that for certain types of graph states the violation of these inequalities increases exponentially with the number of qubits. We also discuss connections to other entanglement properties such as the positivity of the partial transpose or the geometric measure of entanglement.
We derive spin squeezing inequalities that generalize the concept of the spin squeezing parameter and provide necessary and sufficient conditions for genuine 2-, or 3-qubit entanglement for symmetric states, and sufficient condition for N-qubit states. Our inequalities have a clear physical interpretation as entanglement witnesses, can be easily measured, and are given by complex but elementary expressions.
We consider a CNOT gate operation under the influence of quantum bit-flip noise and demonstrate that ac fields can change the qubit Hamiltonian in such a way that it approximately commutes with the bath coupling. Then the noise effectively acts as phase noise which improves coherence up to several orders of magnitude while the gate operation time remains unchanged. Within a high-frequency approximation, both purity and fidelity of the gate operation are studied analytically. The numerical treatment with a Bloch-Redfield master equation confirms the analytical results.
We propose and demonstrate a new scheme of high-efficiency generation of the three-photon polarization-entangled W state, which is a typical three-qubit entangled state. The high efficiency has enabled the first full characterization of the state by quantum state tomography. We have analyzed the obtained state and observed its nature of tripartite entanglement and robustness of entanglement.
Linear-optics quantum logic operations enabled the observation of a four-photon cluster state. We prove genuine four-partite entanglement and study its persistency, demonstrating remarkable differences from the usual Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state. Efficient analysis tools are introduced in the experiment, which will be of great importance in further studies on multiparticle entangled states.
We investigate the advantages of using two independent, linear detectors for continuous quantum measurement. For single-shot measurement, the detection process may be quantum limited if the detectors are twins. For weak continuous measurement, cross correlations allow a violation of the Korotkov-Averin bound for the detector's signal-to-noise ratio. The joint weak measurement of noncommuting observables is also investigated, and we find the cross correlation changes sign as a function of frequency, reflecting a crossover from incoherent relaxation to coherent, out of phase oscillations. Our results are applied to a double quantum-dot charge qubit, simultaneously measured by two quantum point contacts.
In this Letter we propose an interferometric experiment to detect non-Abelian quasiparticle statisticsone of the hallmark characteristics of the Moore-Read state expected to describe the observed fractional quantum Hall effect plateau at 5=2. The implications for using this state for constructing a topologically protected qubit as has been recently proposed by Das Sarma et al. are also addressed.
We report observations of entanglement of two remote atomic qubits, achieved by generating an entangled state of an atomic qubit and a single photon at site A, transmitting the photon to site B in an adjacent laboratory through an optical fiber, and converting the photon into an atomic qubit. Entanglement of the two remote atomic qubits is inferred by performing, locally, quantum state transfer of each of the atomic qubits onto a photonic qubit and subsequent measurement of polarization correlations in violation of the Bell inequality jSj 2. We experimentally determine S exp 2:16 0:03. Entanglement of two remote atomic qubits, each qubit consisting of two independent spin wave excitations, and reversible, coherent transfer of entanglement between matter and light represent important advances in quantum information science.
I present a general scheme through which the evidence of a superposition involving distinct states of a mesoscopic system can be probed. The scheme relies on a single qubit being coupled to a mesoscopic harmonic oscillator in such a way that it can be used to both prepare and probe a superposition of states of the oscillator. Two potentially realizable implementations, one with a single flux qubit coupled to an LC circuit, and the other with a single ion-trap qubit coupled to the collective motion of several ions, are proposed.
In a topological quantum computer, universal quantum computation is performed by dragging quasiparticle excitations of certain two dimensional systems around each other to form braids of their world lines in 2 1 dimensional space-time. In this Letter we show that any such quantum computation that can be done by braiding n identical quasiparticles can also be done by moving a single quasiparticle around n ÿ 1 other identical quasiparticles whose positions remain fixed.
Prospects for the quantum control of electrons in the silicon quantum computer architecture are considered theoretically. In particular, we investigate the feasibility of shuttling donor-bound electrons between the impurity in the bulk and the Si-SiO 2 interface by tuning an external electric field. We calculate the shuttling time to range from subpicoseconds to nanoseconds depending on the distance (10-50 nm) of the donor from the interface. Our results establish that quantum control in such nanostructure architectures could, in principle, be achieved.
We have observed the coherent exchange of a single energy quantum between a flux qubit and a superconducting LC circuit acting as a quantum harmonic oscillator. The exchange of an energy quantum is known as the vacuum Rabi oscillation: the qubit is oscillating between the excited state and the ground state and the oscillator between the vacuum state and the first excited state. We also show that we can detect the state of the oscillator with the qubit and thereby obtained evidence of level quantization of the LC circuit. Our results support the idea of using oscillators as couplers of solid-state qubits.
To verify the hypothesis about the common origin of the low-frequency 1=f noise and the quantum f noise recently measured in the Josephson charge qubits, we study the temperature dependence of the 1=f noise and decay of coherent oscillations. The T 2 dependence of the 1=f noise is experimentally demonstrated, which supports the hypothesis. We also show that dephasing in the Josephson charge qubits off the electrostatic energy degeneracy point is consistently explained by the same low-frequency 1=f noise that is observed in the transport measurements.
We have investigated decoherence in Josephson-junction flux qubits. Based on the measurements of decoherence at various bias conditions, we discriminate contributions of different noise sources. We present a Gaussian decay function extracted from the echo signal as evidence of dephasing due to 1=f flux noise whose spectral density is evaluated to be about 10 ÿ6 0 2 =Hz at 1 Hz. We also demonstrate that, at an optimal bias condition where the noise sources are well decoupled, the coherence observed in the echo measurement is limited mainly by energy relaxation of the qubit.
We propose to use the recently predicted two-dimensional ''weak-pairing'' p x ip y superfluid state of fermionic cold atoms as a platform for topological quantum computation. In the core of a vortex, this state supports a zero-energy Majorana mode, which moves to finite energy in the corresponding topologically trivial ''strong-pairing'' state. By braiding vortices in the ''weak-pairing'' state, unitary quantum gates can be applied to the Hilbert space of Majorana zero modes. For readout of the topological qubits, we propose realistic schemes suitable for atomic superfluids.
In the preceding Comment [1], He proposes an eavesdropping strategy on the single-qubit N-party secret sharing protocol described and experimentally demonstrated in Ref. [2]. As we shall argue, the strategy allows the cheater or cheaters to gain only a small part of the secret and can be fended off completely by a trivial, but appealing, modification of the classical communication part of the secret sharing protocol. This modification makes the protocol simpler than the original one.
We study the computational complexity of the N-representability problem in quantum chemistry. We show that this problem is quantum Merlin-Arthur complete, which is the quantum generalization of nondeterministic polynomial time complete. Our proof uses a simple mapping from spin systems to fermionic systems, as well as a convex optimization technique that reduces the problem of finding ground states to N representability.
The zero-energy bound states at the edges or vortex cores of chiral p-wave superconductors should behave like Majorana fermions. We introduce a model Hamiltonian that describes the tunneling process when electrons are injected into such states. Using a nonequilibrium Green function formalism, we find exact analytic expressions for the tunneling current and noise and identify experimental signatures of the Majorana nature of the bound states to be found in the shot noise. We discuss the results in the context of different candidate materials that support triplet superconductivity. Experimental verification of the Majorana character of midgap states would have important implications for the prospects of topological quantum computation.
We propose a model for 1=f flux noise in superconducting devices (f is frequency). The noise is generated by the magnetic moments of electrons in defect states which they occupy for a wide distribution of times before escaping. A trapped electron occupies one of the two Kramers-degenerate ground states, between which the transition rate is negligible at low temperature. As a result, the magnetic moment orientation is locked. Simulations of the noise produced by randomly oriented defects with a density of 5 10 17 m ÿ2 yield 1=f noise magnitudes in good agreement with experiments.
We report on the first unambiguous observation of macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) in a single submicron Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8 surface intrinsic Josephson junction (IJJ) by measuring its temperaturedependent switching current distribution. All relevant junction parameters were determined in situ in the classical regime and were used to predict the behavior of the IJJ in the quantum regime via MQT theory. Experimental results agree quantitatively with the theoretical predictions, thus confirming the MQT picture. Furthermore, the data also indicate that the surface IJJ, where the current flows along the c axis of the crystal, has the conventional sin' current-phase relationship.
We present a new method to measure 1=f noise in Josephson quantum bits (qubits) that yields lowfrequency spectra below 1 Hz. A comparison of the noise taken at positive and negative bias of a phase qubit shows the dominant noise source to be flux noise and not junction critical-current noise, with a magnitude similar to that measured previously in other systems. Theoretical calculations show that the level of flux noise is not compatible with the standard model of noise from two-level state defects in the surface oxides of the films.
We propose and analyze a probabilistic scheme to entangle two spatially separated topological qubits in a p x ip y superfluid using controlled collisions between atoms in movable dipole traps and unpaired atoms inside vortex cores in the superfluid. We discuss how to test the violation of Bell's inequality with the generated entanglement. A set of universal quantum gates is shown to be implementable deterministically using the entanglement despite the fact that the entangled states can be created only probabilistically.
We analyze decoherence of a quantum register in the absence of nonlocal operations, i.e., n noninteracting qubits coupled to an environment. The problem is solved in terms of a sum rule which implies linear scaling in the number of qubits. Each term involves a single qubit and its entanglement with the remaining ones. Two conditions are essential: first, decoherence must be small, and second, the coupling of different qubits must be uncorrelated in the interaction picture. We apply the result to a random matrix model, and illustrate its reach considering a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state coupled to a spin bath.
We demonstrate quantum coherent control of single electronic spins in a nitron-vacancy center in diamond by exploiting and implementing the general concept of Landau-Zener-Stu ¨ckelberg interferometry at room temperature. The interferometry manipulates an effective two-level system of electronic spins which are coupled to the nearby 14 N nuclear spin in the nitron-vacancy center as well as the nuclear spin bath in the diamond. With a microwave field to control the energy gap between the two levels and an AC field as the time-dependent driving field in Landau-Zener-Stu ¨ckelberg interferometry, the interference pattern can be generated and controlled by controlling a number of parameters in the fields, corresponding to coherent control of the state of the electronic spins. In particular, the interference pattern is observed oscillating as a function of the frequency of the microwave field. Decays in the visibility of the interference pattern are also observed and well explained by numerical simulation which takes into account the thermal fluctuations arising from the nuclear bath. Therefore, our work also demonstrates that Landau-Zener-Stu ¨ckelberg interferometry can be used for probing decoherence processes of electronic spins.
Equation (A9) had a small typo. The coefficient of the second term in the brackets should be 12 instead of 2. The correct equation is f 3=2 ðtÞ ¼
High-fidelity two-qubit gates at scale are a key requirement to realize the full promise of quantum computation and simulation. The advent and use of coupler elements to tunably control two-qubit interactions has improved operational fidelity in many-qubit systems by reducing parasitic coupling and frequency crowding issues. Nonetheless, two-qubit gate errors still limit the capability of near-term quantum applications. The reason, in part, is that the existing framework for tunable couplers based on the dispersive approximation does not fully incorporate three-body multilevel dynamics, which is essential for addressing coherent leakage to the coupler and parasitic longitudinal (ZZ) interactions during two-qubit gates. Here, we present a systematic approach that goes beyond the dispersive approximation to exploit the engineered level structure of the coupler and optimize its control. Using this approach, we experimentally demonstrate CZ and ZZ-free iSWAP gates with two-qubit interaction fidelities of 99.76 AE 0.07% and 99.87 AE 0.23%, respectively, which are close to their T 1 limits.
The interplay between thermal and quantum fluctuations controls the competition between phases of matter in strongly correlated electron systems. We study finite-temperature properties of the strongly coupled two-dimensional doped Hubbard model using the minimally entangled typical thermal states method on width-four cylinders. We discover that a phase characterized by commensurate short-range antiferromagnetic correlations and no charge ordering occurs at temperatures above the half-filled stripe phase extending to zero temperature. The transition from the antiferromagnetic phase to the stripe phase takes place at temperature T=t ≈ 0.05 and is accompanied by a steplike feature of the specific heat. We find the single-particle gap to be smallest close to the nodal point at k ¼ ðπ=2; π=2Þ and detect a maximum in the magnetic susceptibility. These features bear a strong resemblance to the pseudogap phase of hightemperature cuprate superconductors. The simulations are verified using a variety of different unbiased numerical methods in the three limiting cases of zero temperature, small lattice sizes, and half filling. Moreover, we compare to and confirm previous determinantal quantum Monte Carlo results on incommensurate spin-density waves at finite doping and temperature.
Electron spins are amongst the most coherent solid-state systems known. However, to be used in devices for quantum sensing and information processing applications, they must typically be placed near interfaces. Understanding and mitigating the impacts of such interfaces on the coherence and spectral properties of electron spins is critical to realizing such applications, but it is also challenging: Inferring such data from single-spin studies requires many measurements to obtain meaningful results, while ensemble measurements typically give averaged results that hide critical information. Here, we report a comprehensive study of the coherence of near-surface bismuth donor spins in 28-silicon at millikelvin temperatures. In particular, we use strain-induced frequency shifts caused by a metallic electrode to infer spatial maps of spin coherence as a function of position relative to the electrode. By measuring magnetic-field-insensitive clock transitions, we separate magnetic noise caused by surface spins from charge noise. Our results include quantitative models of the strain-split spin resonance spectra and extraction of paramagnetic impurity concentrations at the silicon surface. The interplay of these decoherence mechanisms for such near-surface electron spins is critical for their application in quantum technologies, while the combination of the strain splitting and clock transition extends the coherence lifetimes by up to 2 orders of magnitude, reaching up to 300 ms at a mean depth of only 100 nm. The technique we introduce here to spatially map coherence in near-surface ensembles is directly applicable to other spin systems of active interest, such as defects in diamond, silicon carbide, and rare earth ions in optical crystals.
The interplay between thermal and quantum fluctuations controls the competition between phases of matter in strongly correlated electron systems. We study finite-temperature properties of the strongly coupled two-dimensional doped Hubbard model using the minimally entangled typical thermal states method on width-four cylinders. We discover that a phase characterized by commensurate short-range antiferromagnetic correlations and no charge ordering occurs at temperatures above the half-filled stripe phase extending to zero temperature. The transition from the antiferromagnetic phase to the stripe phase takes place at temperature T=t ≈ 0.05 and is accompanied by a steplike feature of the specific heat. We find the single-particle gap to be smallest close to the nodal point at k ¼ ðπ=2; π=2Þ and detect a maximum in the magnetic susceptibility. These features bear a strong resemblance to the pseudogap phase of hightemperature cuprate superconductors. The simulations are verified using a variety of different unbiased numerical methods in the three limiting cases of zero temperature, small lattice sizes, and half filling. Moreover, we compare to and confirm previous determinantal quantum Monte Carlo results on incommensurate spin-density waves at finite doping and temperature.
Quantum computers are on the brink of surpassing the capabilities of even the most powerful classical computers, which naturally raises the question of how one can trust the results of a quantum computer when they cannot be compared to classical simulation Here, we present a cross-verification technique that exploits the principles of measurement-based quantum computation to link quantum circuits of different input size, depth, and structure. Our technique enables consistency checks of quantum computations between independent devices, as well as within a single device. We showcase our protocol by applying it to five state-of-the-art quantum processors, based on four distinct physical architectures: nuclear magnetic resonance, superconducting circuits, trapped ions, and photonics, with up to six qubits and up to 200 distinct circuits.
Suppressing noise in physical systems is of fundamental importance. As quantum computers mature, quantum error correcting codes (QECs) will be adopted in order to suppress errors to any desired level. However in the noisy, intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) era, the complexity and scale required to adopt even the smallest QEC is prohibitive: a single logical qubit needs to be encoded into many thousands of physical qubits. Here we show that, for the crucial case of estimating expectation values of observables (key to almost all NISQ algorithms) one can indeed achieve an effective exponential suppression. We take n independently prepared circuit outputs to create a state whose symmetries prevent errors from contributing bias to the expected value. The approach is very well suited for current and near-term quantum devices as it is modular in the main computation and requires only a shallow circuit that bridges the n copies immediately prior to measurement. Using no more than four circuit copies, we confirm error suppression below 10 -6 for circuits consisting of several hundred noisy gates (2-qubit gate error 0.5%) in numerical simulations validating our approach.
Efficient quantum state measurement is important for maximizing the extracted information from a quantum system. For multiqubit quantum processors, in particular, the development of a scalable architecture for rapid and high-fidelity readout remains a critical unresolved problem. Here we propose reservoir computing as a resource-efficient solution to quantum measurement of superconducting multiqubit systems. We consider a small network of Josephson parametric oscillators, which can be implemented with minimal device overhead and in the same platform as the measured quantum system. We theoretically analyze the operation of such a device as a reservoir computer to classify stochastic timedependent signals subject to quantum statistical features. We apply this reservoir computer to the task of multinomial classification of measurement trajectories from joint multiqubit readout. For a 2-qubit dispersive measurement under realistic conditions we demonstrate a classification fidelity reliably exceeding that of an optimal linear filter using only 2-5 reservoir nodes, while simultaneously requiring far less calibration data-as little as a few shots per state. We understand this remarkable performance through an analysis of the network dynamics and develop an intuitive picture of reservoir processing generally. Finally, we demonstrate how to operate this device to perform 2-qubit state tomography and continuous parity monitoring with equal effectiveness and ease of calibration. This reservoir processor avoids computationally intensive training common to other machine learning frameworks and can be implemented as an integrated cryogenic superconducting device for low-latency processing of quantum signals on the computational edge.
Efficient quantum state measurement is important for maximizing the extracted information from a quantum system. For multiqubit quantum processors, in particular, the development of a scalable architecture for rapid and high-fidelity readout remains a critical unresolved problem. Here we propose reservoir computing as a resource-efficient solution to quantum measurement of superconducting multiqubit systems. We consider a small network of Josephson parametric oscillators, which can be implemented with minimal device overhead and in the same platform as the measured quantum system. We theoretically analyze the operation of such a device as a reservoir computer to classify stochastic timedependent signals subject to quantum statistical features. We apply this reservoir computer to the task of multinomial classification of measurement trajectories from joint multiqubit readout. For a 2-qubit dispersive measurement under realistic conditions we demonstrate a classification fidelity reliably exceeding that of an optimal linear filter using only 2-5 reservoir nodes, while simultaneously requiring far less calibration data-as little as a few shots per state. We understand this remarkable performance through an analysis of the network dynamics and develop an intuitive picture of reservoir processing generally. Finally, we demonstrate how to operate this device to perform 2-qubit state tomography and continuous parity monitoring with equal effectiveness and ease of calibration. This reservoir processor avoids computationally intensive training common to other machine learning frameworks and can be implemented as an integrated cryogenic superconducting device for low-latency processing of quantum signals on the computational edge.
Neutral atom arrays are a rapidly developing platform for quantum science. Recently, alkaline earth atoms (AEAs) have attracted interest because their unique level structure provides several opportunities for improved performance. In this work, we present the first demonstration of a universal set of quantum gate operations on a nuclear spin qubit in an AEA, using 171 Yb. We implement narrow-line cooling and imaging using a newly discovered magic trapping wavelength at λ ¼ 486.78 nm. We also demonstrate nuclear spin initialization, readout, and single-qubit gates and observe long coherence times [T 1 ≈ 20 s and T Ã 2 ¼ 1.24ð5Þ s] and a single-qubit operation fidelity F 1Q ¼ 0.99959ð6Þ. We also demonstrate two-qubit entangling gates using the Rydberg blockade, as well as coherent control of these gate operations using light shifts on the Yb þ ion core transition at 369 nm. These results are a significant step toward highly coherent quantum gates in AEA tweezer arrays.
We report on a universal method to measure the genuine indistinguishability of n photons-a crucial parameter that determines the accuracy of optical quantum computing. Our approach relies on a low-depth cyclic multiport interferometer with N ¼ 2n modes, leading to a quantum interference fringe whose visibility is a direct measurement of the genuine n-photon indistinguishability. We experimentally demonstrate this technique for an eight-mode integrated interferometer fabricated using femtosecond laser micromachining and four photons from a quantum dot single-photon source. We measure a fourphoton indistinguishability up to 0.81 AE 0.03. This value decreases as we intentionally alter the photon pairwise indistinguishability. The low-depth and low-loss multiport interferometer design provides an original path to evaluate the genuine indistinguishability of resource states of increasing photon number.
The quantum Hall states at filling factors ν ¼ 5=2 and 7=2 are expected to have Abelian charge-e=2 quasiparticles and non-Abelian charge-e=4 quasiparticles. The non-Abelian statistics of the latter is predicted to display a striking interferometric signature, the even-odd effect. By measuring resistance oscillations as a function of the magnetic field in Fabry-Pérot interferometers using new high-purity heterostructures, we for the first time report experimental evidence for the non-Abelian nature of excitations at ν ¼ 7=2. At both ν ¼ 5=2 and 7=2, we also examine, for the first time, the fermion parity, a topological quantum number of an even number of non-Abelian quasiparticles. The phase of observed e=4 oscillations is reproducible and stable over long times (hours) near both filling factors, indicating stability of the fermion parity. At both fractions, when phase fluctuations are observed, they are predominantly π phase flips, consistent with either fermion parity change or change in the number of the enclosed e=4 quasiparticles. We also examine lower-frequency oscillations attributable to Abelian interference processes in both states. Taken together, these results constitute new evidence for the non-Abelian nature of e=4 quasiparticles; the observed lifetime of their combined fermion parity further strengthens the case for their utility for topological quantum computation.
Quantum-computation architecture based on d-level systems, or qudits, has attracted considerable attention recently due to their enlarged Hilbert space. Extensive theoretical and experimental studies have addressed aspects of algorithms and benchmarking techniques for qudit-based quantum computation and quantum-information processing. Here, we report a physical realization of a qudit with up to four embedded levels in a superconducting transmon demonstrating high-fidelity initialization, manipulation, and simultaneous multilevel readout. In addition to constructing SUðdÞ operations and benchmarking protocols for quantum-state tomography, quantum-process tomography, randomized benchmarking, etc., we experimentally carry out these operations for d ¼ 3 and d ¼ 4. Moreover, we perform prototypical quantum algorithms and observe outcomes consistent with expectations. Our work will hopefully stimulate further research interest in developing manipulation protocols and efficient applications for quantum processors with qudits.
The amplitude-damping time T 1 has long stood as the major factor limiting quantum fidelity in superconducting circuits, prompting concerted efforts in the material science and design of qubits aimed at increasing T 1 . In contrast, the dephasing time T ϕ can usually be extended above T 1 (via, e.g., dynamical decoupling) to the point where it does not limit fidelity. In this article, we propose a scheme for overcoming the conventional T 1 limit on fidelity by designing qubits in a way that amplitude-damping errors can be detected and converted into erasure errors. Compared to standard qubit implementations, our scheme improves the performance of fault-tolerant protocols, as numerically demonstrated by the circuit-noise simulations of the surface code. We describe two simple qubit implementations with superconducting circuits and discuss procedures for detecting amplitude-damping errors, performing entangling gates, and extending T ϕ . Our results suggest that engineering efforts should focus on improving T ϕ and the quality of quantum coherent control, as they effectively become the limiting factor on the performance of faulttolerant protocols.
Measurement-based quantum error correction relies on the ability to determine the state of a subset of qubits (ancillas) within a processor without revealing or disturbing the state of the remaining qubits. Among neutral-atom-based platforms, a scalable, high-fidelity approach to midcircuit measurement that retains the ancilla qubits in a state suitable for future operations has not yet been demonstrated. In this work, we perform maging using a narrow-linewidth transition in an array of tweezer-confined 171 Yb atoms to demonstrate nondestructive state-selective and site-selective detection. By applying site-specific light shifts, selected atoms within the array can be hidden from imaging light, which allows a subset of qubits to be measured while causing only percent-level errors on the remaining qubits. As a proof-of-principle demonstration of conditional operations based on the results of the midcircuit measurements, and of our ability to reuse ancilla qubits, we perform conditional refilling of ancilla sites to correct for occasional atom loss, while maintaining the coherence of data qubits. Looking toward true continuous operation, we demonstrate loading of a magneto-optical trap with a minimal degree of qubit decoherence.
Midcircuit operations, such as qubit state measurement or reset, are central to many tasks in quantum information science, including quantum computing, entanglement generation, and metrology. For instance, in quantum error correction, the information gained from a measurement on a subset of qubits is used to influence the state of the remaining unmeasured qubits, rectifying inevitable errors that arise in a quantum circuit. Such partial projective operations pose a challenge for dense neutral atom arrays and trapped ions, where accidental exposure to resonant laser light during quantum state initialization and detection can spoil the state of untargeted qubits. In this work, we implement midcircuit operations in a 48-site array of neutral atoms, enabled by new methods for high-fidelity control of the omg (optical-metastable-ground-state qubit) architecture present in 171 Yb. Here, the quantum information is encoded in either of the three qubit manifolds and can be shuttled between them. With state-sensitive shelving between the ground and metastable states, we realize a nondestructive state detection for 171 Yb, incorporating global control and local feed-forward operations. Using new schemes for local addressing of the optical clock transition, we shelve a subset of qubits to the metastable state, hiding them from projective operations performed on the qubits remaining in the ground state, demonstrating midcircuit measurement, spin reset, and motional reset in the form of ground-state cooling.
In selecting the papers that it publishes, PRX intends to be both broad in scope and highly selective in standard. The paper by Jones et al. [Phys. Rev. X 2
The phenomenon of ultrastrong light-matter interaction of a two-dimensional electron gas within a lumped element electronic circuit resonator is explored. The gas is coupled through the oscillating electric field of the capacitor, and in the limit of very small capacitor volumes, the total number of electrons of the system can be reduced to only a few. One of the peculiar features of our quantum mechanical system is that its Hamiltonian evolves from the fermionic Rabi model to the bosonic Hopfield model for light-matter coupling as the number of electrons is increased. We show that the Dicke states, introduced to describe the atomic super-radiance, are the natural base to describe the crossover between the two models. Furthermore, we illustrate how the ultrastrong coupling regime in the system and the associated antiresonant terms of the quantum Hamiltonian have a fundamentally different impact in the fermionic and bosonic cases. In the intermediate regime, our system behaves like a multilevel quantum bit with nonharmonic energy spacing, owing to the particle-particle interactions. Such a system can be inserted into a technological semiconductor platform, thus opening interesting perspectives for electronic devices where the readout of quantum electrodynamical properties is obtained via the measure of a DC current.
Much of the anticipation accompanying the development of a quantum computer relates to its application to simulating dynamics of another quantum system of interest. Here, we study the building blocks for simulating quantum spin systems with linear optics. We experimentally generate the eigenstates of the XY Hamiltonian under an external magnetic field. The implemented quantum circuit consists of two CNOT gates, which are realized experimentally by harnessing entanglement from a photon source and applying a CPHASE gate. We tune the ratio of coupling constants and the magnetic field by changing local parameters. This implementation of the XY model using linear quantum optics might open the door to future studies of quenching dynamics using linear optics.
We propose and study the use of photon-mediated interactions for the generation of long-range steady-state entanglement between N atoms. Through the judicious use of coherent drives and the placement of the atoms in a network of cavity QED systems, a balance between their unitary and dissipative dynamics can be precisely engineered to stabilize a long-range correlated state of qubits in the steady state. We discuss the general theory behind such a scheme and present an example of how it can be used to drive a register of N atoms to a generalized W state and how the entanglement can be sustained indefinitely. The achievable steady-state fidelities for entanglement and its scaling with the number of qubits are discussed for presently existing superconducting quantum circuits. While the protocol is primarily discussed for a superconducting circuit architecture, it is ideally realized in any cavity QED platform that permits controllable delivery of coherent electromagnetic radiation to specified locations.
We propose an explicit formulation of the physical subspace for a (1 þ 1)-dimensional SU(2) lattice gauge theory, where the gauge degrees of freedom are integrated out. Our formulation is completely general, and might be potentially suited for the design of future quantum simulators. Additionally, it allows for addressing the theory numerically with matrix product states. We apply this technique to explore the spectral properties of the model and the effect of truncating the gauge degrees of freedom to a small finite dimension. In particular, we determine the scaling exponents for the vector mass. Furthermore, we also compute the entanglement entropy in the ground state and study its scaling towards the continuum limit.
Group-IV vacancy color centers in diamond are fast emerging qubits that can be harnessed in quantum communication and sensor applications. There is an immediate quest for understanding their magnetooptical properties, in order to select the appropriate qubits for varying needs of particular quantum applications. Here we present results from cutting-edge ab initio calculations about the charge state stability, zero-phonon-line energies, and spin-orbit and electron-phonon couplings for group-IV vacancy color centers. Based on the analysis of our results, we develop a novel spin Hamiltonian for these qubits which incorporates the interaction of the electron spin and orbit coupled with phonons beyond perturbation theory. Our results are in good agreement with previous data and predict a new defect for qubit applications with thermally initialized ground state spin and long spin coherence time.
The Majorana fermion, which is its own antiparticle and obeys non-Abelian statistics, plays a critical role in topological quantum computing. It can be realized as a bound state at zero energy, called a Majorana zero mode (MZM), in the vortex core of a topological superconductor, or at the ends of a nanowire when both superconductivity and strong spin orbital coupling are present. A MZM can be detected as a zero-bias conductance peak (ZBCP) in tunneling spectroscopy. However, in practice, clean and robust MZMs have not been realized in the vortices of a superconductor because of contamination from impurity states or other closely packed Caroli-de Gennes-Matricon (CdGM) states, which hampers further manipulations of MZMs. Here, using scanning tunneling spectroscopy, we show that a ZBCP well separated from the other discrete CdGM states exists ubiquitously in the cores of free vortices in the defect-free regions of ðLi 0.84 Fe 0.16 ÞOHFeSe, which has a superconducting transition temperature of 42 K. Moreover, a Diraccone-type surface state is observed by angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy, and its topological nature is confirmed by band calculations. The observed ZBCP can naturally be attributed to a MZM arising from the chiral topological surface state of a bulk superconductor. Thus, ðLi 0.84 Fe 0.16 ÞOHFeSe provides an ideal platform for studying MZMs and topological quantum computing.
We report the first complete characterization of single-qubit and two-qubit gate fidelities in silicon-based spin qubits, including cross talk and error correlations between the two qubits. To do so, we use a combination of standard randomized benchmarking and a recently introduced method called character randomized benchmarking, which allows for more reliable estimates of the two-qubit fidelity in this system, here giving a 92% fidelity estimate for the controlled-Z gate. Interestingly, with character randomized benchmarking, the two-qubit gate fidelity can be obtained by studying the additional decay induced by interleaving the two-qubit gate in a reference sequence of single-qubit gates only. This work sets the stage for further improvements in all the relevant gate fidelities in silicon spin qubits beyond the error threshold for fault-tolerant quantum computation.
Experimental results are presented on the efficiency limits for a quantum interface between a matterbased qubit and a photonic qubit. Using a trapped ion in an optical cavity, we obtain a single ion-entangled photon at the cavity output with a probability of 0.69(3). The performance of our system is shown to saturate the upper limit to photon-collection probability from a quantum emitter in a cavity, set by the emitter's electronic structure and by the cavity parameters. The probability for generating and detecting the ion-entangled fiber-coupled photon is 0.462(3), a fivefold increase over the previous best performance. Finally, the generation and detection of up to 15 sequential polarized photons demonstrates the ability of a trapped ion to serve as a multiphoton source. The comparison between measured probabilities and predicted bounds is relevant for quantum emitters beyond trapped ions, in particular, for the design of future systems optimizing photon collection from, and absorption in, quantum matter.
Magnetic fields break time-reversal symmetry, which is leveraged in many settings to enable the nonreciprocal behavior of light. This is the core physics of circulators and other elements used in a variety of microwave and optical settings. Commercial circulators in the microwave domain typically use ferromagnetic materials and wave interference, requiring large devices and large fields. However, quantum information devices for sensing and computation require small sizes, lower fields, and better on-chip integration. Equivalences to ferromagnetic order-such as the XY model-can be realized at much lower magnetic fields by use of arrays of superconducting islands connected by Josephson junctions. Here we show that the quantum-coherent motion of a single vortex in such an array suffices to induce nonreciprocal behavior, enabling a small-scale, moderate-bandwidth, and low insertion loss circulator at very low magnetic fields and at microwave frequencies relevant for experiments with qubits.
The ability to shuttle coherently individual electron spins in arrays of quantum dots is a key procedure for the development of scalable quantum information platforms. It allows the use of sparsely populated electron spin arrays, envisioned to efficiently tackle the one-and two-qubit gate challenges. When the electrons are displaced in an array, they are exposed to site-dependent environment interactions such as hyperfine coupling with substrate nuclear spins. Here, we demonstrate that the electron multidirectional displacement in a 3 × 3 array of tunnel-coupled quantum dots enhances the spin-coherence time via the motional narrowing phenomenon. More specifically, up to ten charge configurations are explored by the electrons to study the impact of the displacement on spin dynamics. An increase of the coherence time by a factor up to 10 is observed in the case of fast and repetitive displacement. A simple model quantitatively captures the physical mechanism underlying this enhancement of the spin-coherence time induced by displacement. The implications on spin-coherence properties during the electron displacement are discussed in the context of large-scale quantum circuits.
We observe the continuous emission of photons into a waveguide from a superconducting qubit without the application of an external drive. To explain this counterintuitive observation, we build a two-bath model where the qubit couples simultaneously to a cold bath (the waveguide) and a hot bath (a secondary environment). Our results show that the thermal-photon occupation of the hot bath is up to 0.14 photons, 35 times larger than the cold waveguide, leading to nonequilibrium heat transport with a power of up to 132 zW, as estimated from the qubit emission spectrum. By adding more isolation between the sample output and the first cold amplifier in the output line, the heat transport is strongly suppressed. Our interpretation is that the hot bath may arise from active two-level systems being excited by noise from the output line, and that the qubit coherence can be improved significantly by suppressing this noise. We also apply a coherent drive, and use the waveguide to measure thermodynamic work and heat, suggesting waveguide spectroscopy is a useful means to study quantum heat engines and refrigerators. Finally, based on the theoretical model, we propose how a similar setup can be used as a noise spectrometer which provides a solution for calibrating the background noise of hybrid quantum systems.
Here, we present an efficient quantum algorithm to generate a many-body state equivalent to Laughlin's ν = 1/3 fractional quantum Hall state on a digitized quantum computer. Our algorithm only uses quantum gates acting on neighboring qubits in a quasi-one-dimensional (1D) setting and its circuit depth is linear in the number of qubits, i.e., the number of Landau orbitals in the second quantized picture. We identify correlation functions that serve as signatures of the Laughlin state and discuss how to obtain them on a quantum computer. We also discuss a generalization of the algorithm for creating quasiparticles in the Laughlin state. This paves the way for several important studies, including quantum simulation of nonequilibrium dynamics and braiding of quasiparticles in quantum Hall states.
Most proof-of-principle experiments for spin qubits have been performed with GaAs-based quantum dots because of the excellent control they offer over tunneling barriers and the orbital and spin degrees of freedom. Here we present the first realization of high-quality single and double quantum dots hosted in an InAs two-dimensional electron gas, demonstrating accurate control down to the few-electron regime, where we observe a clear Kondo effect and singlet-triplet spin blockade. We measure an electronic g factor of 16 and a typical magnitude of the random hyperfine fields on the quantum dots of approximately 0.6 mT. We estimate the spin-orbit length in the system to be approximately 5 -10 μm (which is almost 2 orders of magnitude longer than typically measured in InAs nanostructures), achieved by a very symmetric design of the quantum well. These favorable properties put the InAs two-dimensional electron gas on the map as a compelling host for studying fundamental aspects of spin qubits. Furthermore, having weak spinorbit coupling in a material with a large Rashba coefficient potentially opens up avenues for engineering structures with spin-orbit coupling that can be controlled locally in space and/or time.
We study SU(2) k anyon models, assessing their prospects for topological quantum computation. In particular, we compare the Ising (k = 2) anyon and Fibonacci (k = 3) anyon models, motivated by their potential for future realizations based on Majorana fermion quasiparticles or exotic fractional quantum Hall states, respectively. The quantum computational performance of the different anyon models is quantified at the single-qubit level by the difference between a target unitary operator and its approximation realized by anyon braiding. To facilitate efficient comparisons, we develop a Monte Carlo enhanced Solovay-Kitaev quantum compiler algorithm that finds near-optimal braid words in polynomial time from the exponentially large search tree. Since universal quantum computation cannot be achieved within the Ising anyon model by braiding alone, we introduce an additional elementary phase gate to model a nontopological measurement process, which restores universality of the anyon model at the cost of breaking the full topological protection. We model conventional kinds of decoherence processes algorithmically by introducing a controllable noise term to all nontopological gate operations. We find that, for reasonable levels of decoherence, even the hybrid Ising anyon model retains a significant topological advantage over a conventional, nontopological, quantum computer. Furthermore, we find that only surprisingly short anyon braids are ever required to be compiled due to the gate noise exceeding the intrinsic error of the braid words already for word lengths of the order of 100 elementary braids. We conclude that the future for hybrid topological quantum computation remains promising.
Encoding a qubit in logical quantum states with wave functions characterized by disjoint support and robust energies can offer simultaneous protection against relaxation and pure dephasing. One of the most promising candidates for such a fully protected superconducting qubit is the 0-π circuit [Brooks et al.,  Phys. Rev. A 87, 052306 (2013)]. Here we realize the proposed circuit topology in an experimentally obtainable parameter regime, where the ground-state degeneracy is lifted but the qubit is still largely noise protected. More precisely, the logical states of this qubit feature disjoint support and are exponentially protected against relaxation and exponentially (first order) protected against dephasing due to charge (flux) noise. We name the resultant device the "soft 0-π qubit." Multitone spectroscopy measurements reveal the energy-level structure of the system, which can be precisely described by a simple two-mode Hamiltonian. Using a Raman-type protocol, we exploit a higher-lying charge-insensitive energy level of the device to realize coherent population transfer and logical operations. The measured relaxation (T 1 = 1.6 ms) and dephasing (T R = 9 μs, T 2E = 25 μs) times demonstrate that the soft 0-π circuit not only broadens the family of superconducting qubits but also constitutes an important step toward quantum computing with intrinsically protected superconducting qubits.
The strong spin-orbit coupling in hole spin qubits enables fast and electrically tunable gates, but at the same time enhances the susceptibility of the qubit to charge noise. Suppressing this noise is a significant challenge in semiconductor quantum computing. Here, we show theoretically that hole Si fin field-effect transistors (FinFETs) are not only very compatible with modern CMOS technology, but they present operational sweet spots where the charge noise is completely removed. The presence of these sweet spots is a result of the interplay between the anisotropy of the material and the triangular shape of the FinFET cross section, and it does not require an extreme fine-tuning of the electrostatics of the device. We present how the sweet spots appear in FinFETs grown along different crystallographic axes and we study in detail how the behavior of these devices changes when the cross-section area and aspect ratio are varied. We identify designs that maximize the qubit performance and could pave the way towards a scalable spin-based quantum computer.
Violating Bell's inequalities (BIs) allows one to certify the preparation of entangled states from minimal assumptions-in a device-independent manner. Finding BIs tailored to many-body correlations as prepared in present-day quantum computers and simulators is however a highly challenging endeavor. In this work, we focus on BIs violated by very coarse-grain features of the system: two-body correlations averaged over all permutations of the parties. For two-outcome measurements, specific BIs of this form have been theoretically and experimentally studied in the past, but it is practically impossible to explicitly test all such BIs. Data-driven methods-reconstructing a violated BI from the data themselves-have therefore been considered. Here, inspired by statistical physics, we develop a novel data-driven approach specifically tailored to such coarse-grain data. Our approach offers two main improvements over the existing literature: (1) it is directly designed for any number of outcomes and settings; (2) the obtained BIs are quadratic in the data, offering a fundamental scaling advantage for the precision required in experiments. This very flexible method, whose complexity does not scale with the system size, allows us to systematically improve over all previously known Bell inequalities robustly violated by ensembles of quantum spin 1/2; and to discover novel families of Bell inequalities, tailored to spin-squeezed states and many-body spin singlets of arbitrary spin-j ensembles.
Quantum simulation, one of the most promising applications of a quantum computer, is currently being explored intensely using the variational quantum eigensolver. The feasibility and performance of this algorithm depend critically on the form of the wave-function ansatz. Recently in Ref. [Nat. Commun. 10,  3007 (2019)], an algorithm termed ADAPT-VQE was introduced to build system-adapted ansätze with substantially fewer variational parameters compared to other approaches. This algorithm relies heavily on a predefined operator pool with which it builds the ansatz. However, Ref. [Nat. Commun. 10, 3007 (2019)] did not provide a prescription for how to select the pool, how many operators it must contain, or whether the resulting ansatz will succeed in converging to the ground state. In addition, the pool used in that work leads to state-preparation circuits that are too deep for a practical application on near-term devices. Here, we address all these key outstanding issues of the algorithm. We present a hardware-efficient variant of ADAPT-VQE that drastically reduces circuit depths using an operator pool that is guaranteed to contain the operators necessary to construct exact ansätze. Moreover, we show that the minimal pool size that achieves this scales linearly with the number of qubits. Through numerical simulations on H 4 , LiH and H 6 , we show that our algorithm ("qubit-ADAPT") reduces the circuit depth by an order of magnitude while maintaining the same accuracy as the original ADAPT-VQE. A central result of our approach is that the additional measurement overhead of qubit-ADAPT compared to fixed-ansatz variational algorithms scales only linearly with the number of qubits. Our work provides a crucial step forward in running algorithms on near-term quantum devices.
We study the reduced dynamics of open quantum spin chains of arbitrary length N with nearest-neighbor XX interactions, immersed within an external constant magnetic field along the z direction, the end spins of which are weakly coupled to heat baths at different temperatures, via energy-preserving couplings. We find the analytic expression of the unique stationary state of the master equation obtained in the so-called global approach based on the spectralization of the full-chain Hamiltonian. Hinging upon the explicit stationary state, we reveal the presence of sink and source terms in the spin-flow continuity equation and compare their behavior with that of the stationary heat flow. Moreover, we also obtain analytic expressions for the steady-state two-spin reduced density matrices and for their concurrence. We then set up an algorithm suited to compute the stationary bipartite entanglement along the chain and to study its dependence on the Hamiltonian parameters and on the bath temperatures.
A unitary t-design is a powerful tool in quantum information science and fundamental physics. Despite its usefulness, only approximate implementations were known for general t. In this paper, we provide quantum circuits that generate exact unitary t-designs for any t on an arbitrary number of qubits. Our construction is inductive and is of practical use in small systems. We then introduce a tth-order generalization of randomized benchmarking (t-RB) as an application of exact 2t-designs. We particularly study the 2-RB in detail and show that it reveals self-adjointness of quantum noise, a metric related to the feasibility of quantum error correction (QEC). We numerically demonstrate that the 2-RB in one-and two-qubit systems is feasible, and experimentally characterize background noise of a superconducting qubit by the 2-RB. It is shown from the experiment that interactions with adjacent qubits induce the noise that may result in an obstacle toward a realization of QEC.
We propose an implementation of a two-dimensional Z 2 lattice gauge theory model on a shallow quantum circuit, involving a number of single-and two-qubit gates comparable to what can be achieved with present-day and near-future technologies. The ground-state preparation is numerically analyzed on a small lattice with a variational quantum algorithm, which requires a small number of parameters to reach high fidelities and can be efficiently scaled up on larger systems. Despite the reduced size of the lattice we consider, a transition between confined and deconfined regimes can be detected by measuring expectation values of Wilson loop operators or the topological entropy. Moreover, if periodic boundary conditions are implemented, the same optimal solution is transferable among all four different topological sectors, without any need for further optimization on the variational parameters. Our work shows that variational quantum algorithms provide a useful technique to be added in the growing toolbox for digital simulations of lattice gauge theories.
In this work we present a detailed analysis of variational quantum phase estimation (VQPE), a method based on real-time evolution for ground-and excited-state estimation on near-term hardware. We derive the theoretical ground on which the approach stands, and demonstrate that it provides one of the most compact variational expansions to date for solving strongly correlated Hamiltonians, when starting from an appropriate reference state. At the center of VQPE lies a set of equations, with a simple geometrical interpretation, which provides conditions for the time evolution grid in order to decouple eigenstates out of the set of time-evolved expansion states, and connects the method to the classical filter-diagonalization algorithm. Furthermore, we introduce what we call the unitary formulation of VQPE, in which the number of matrix elements that need to be measured scales linearly with the number of expansion states, and we provide an analysis of the effects of noise that substantially improves previous considerations. The unitary formulation allows for a direct comparison to iterative phase estimation. Our results mark VQPE as both a natural and highly efficient quantum algorithm for ground-and excited-state calculations of general manybody systems. We demonstrate a hardware implementation of VQPE for the transverse field Ising model. Furthermore, we illustrate its power on a paradigmatic example of strong correlation (Cr 2 in the def2-SVP basis set), and show that it is possible to reach chemical accuracy with as few as approximately 50 time steps.
The generating functional of a self-interacting scalar quantum field theory (QFT), which contains all the relevant information about real-time dynamics and scattering experiments, can be mapped onto a collection of multipartite-entangled two-level sensors via an interferometric protocol that exploits a specific set of source functions. Although one typically focuses on impulsive δ-like sources, as these give direct access to n-point Feynman propagators, we show in this work that using always-on harmonic sources can simplify substantially the sensing protocol. In a specific regime, the effective real-time dynamics of the quantum sensors can be described by a quantum Ising model with long-range couplings, the range and strength of which contains all the relevant information about the renormalization of the QFT, which can now be extracted in the absence of multipartite entanglement. We present a detailed analysis of how this sensing protocol can be relevant to characterize the long-wavelength QFT that describes quantized sound waves of trapped-ion crystals in the vicinity of a structural phase transition, opening a new route to characterize the associated renormalization of sound.
Two-dimensional p + ip superconductors and superfluids are systems that feature chiral behavior emerging from the Cooper pairing of electrons or neutral fermionic atoms with nonzero angular momentum. Their realization has been a longstanding goal because they offer great potential utility for quantum computation and memory. However, they have so far eluded experimental observation both in solid-state systems as well as in ultracold quantum gases. Here, we propose to leverage the tremendous control offered by rotating two-dimensional trapped-ion crystals in a Penning trap to simulate the dynamical phases of two-dimensional p + ip superfluids. This is accomplished by mapping the presence or absence of a Cooper pair into an effective spin-1/2 system encoded in the ions' electronic levels. We show how to infer the topological properties of the dynamical phases, and discuss the role of beyond mean-field corrections. More broadly, our work opens the door to use trapped-ion systems to explore exotic models of topological superconductivity and also paves the way to generate and manipulate skyrmionic spin textures in these platforms.
Recent work has demonstrated that high-threshold quantum error correction is possible for biasednoise qubits, provided that one can implement a controlled-sc not (CX) gate that preserves the bias. Bias-preserving CX gates have been proposed for several biased-noise qubit platforms, most notably Kerr cats. However, experimentally measuring the noise bias is challenging, as it requires accurately estimating certain low-probability Pauli errors in the presence of much larger state-preparation-and-measurement (SPAM) errors. In this paper, we introduce bias-randomized benchmarking (BRB) as a technique for measuring bias in quantum gates. BRB, like all RB protocols, is highly accurate and immune to SPAM errors. Our first protocol, CX-dihedral BRB, is a straightforward method to measure the bias of the entire CX-dihedral group. Our second protocol, interleaved-bias randomized benchmarking (IBRB), is a generalization of interleaved RB tailored to the experimental constraints of biased-noise qubits; this is a more involved procedure that directly targets the bias of the CX gate alone. Our BRB procedures occupy a middle ground between classic RB protocols that only estimate the average fidelity and tomographic RB protocols that provide more detailed characterization of noise but require more measurements as well as experimental capabilities that are not necessarily available in biased-noise qubits.
Silicon spin qubits stand out due to their very long coherence times, compatibility with industrial fabrication, and prospect to integrate classical control electronics. To achieve a truly scalable architecture, a coherent mid-range link that moves the electrons between qubit registers has been suggested to solve the signal fan-out problem. Here, we present a blueprint of such a link of 10 µm length, called a spin qubit shuttle, which is based on connecting an array of gates into a small number of sets. To control these sets, only a few voltage control lines are needed and the number of these sets and thus the number of required control signals is independent of the length of this link. We discuss two different operation modes for the spin qubit shuttle: a qubit conveyor, i.e., a potential minimum that smoothly moves laterally, and a bucket brigade, in which the electron is transported through a series of tunnel-coupled quantum dots by adiabatic passage. We find the former approach more promising considering a realistic Si/SiGe device, including potential disorder from the charged defects at the Si/SiO 2 layer, as well as typical charge noise. Focusing on the qubit transfer fidelity in the conveyor shuttling mode, we discuss in detail motional narrowing, the interplay between orbital and valley excitation and relaxation in the presence of g factors that depend on orbital and valley state of the electron, and effects from spin hotspots. We find that a transfer fidelity of 99.9% is feasible in Si/SiGe at a speed of approximately 10 m/s, if the average valley splitting and its inhomogeneity stay within realistic bounds. Operation at low global magnetic field approximately equal to 20 mT and material engineering towards high valley splitting is favorable for reaching high fidelities of transfer.
The T center, a silicon-native spin-photon interface with telecommunication-band optical transitions and long-lived microwave qubits, offers an appealing new platform for both optical quantum memory and microwave-to-optical telecommunication-band transduction. A wide range of quantum memory and transduction schemes could be implemented withT center ensembles with sufficient optical depth, with advantages and disadvantages that depend sensitively on the ensemble properties. In this work we characterize T center spin ensembles to inform device design. We perform the first T ensemble optical depth measurement and calculate the improvement in center density or resonant optical enhancement required for efficient optical quantum memory. We further demonstrate a coherent microwave interface by coherent population trapping and Autler-Townes splitting. We then determine the most promising microwave and optical quantum memory protocol for such ensembles. By estimating the memory efficiency both in free space and in the presence of a cavity, we show that efficient optical memory is possible with reasonable optical density forecasts. Finally, we formulate a transduction proposal and discuss the achievable efficiency and fidelity.
The pair-coherent state (PCS) is a theoretical extension of the Glauber coherent state to two harmonic oscillators. It is an interesting class of non-Gaussian continuous-variable entangled state and it is also at the heart of a promising quantum error-correction code: the pair-cat code. Here, we report an experimental demonstration of the pair-coherent state of microwave photons in two superconducting cavities. We implement a cross-cavity pair-photon driven-dissipation process, which conserves the photon-number difference between cavities and stabilizes the state to a specific complex amplitude. We further introduce a technique of quantum subspace tomography, which enables direct measurements of individual coherence elements of a high-dimensional quantum state without global tomographic reconstruction. We characterize our two-mode quantum state with up to four photons in each cavity using this subspace tomography together with direct measurements of the photon-number difference and the joint Wigner function. We identify the spurious cross-Kerr interaction between the cavities and our dissipative reservoir mode as a prominent dephasing channel that limits the steady-state coherence in our current scheme. Our experiment provides a set of reservoir-engineering and state-characterization tools to study quantum optics and implement multimode bosonic codes in superconducting circuits.
Encoding quantum information onto bosonic systems is a promising route to quantum error correction. In a cat code, this encoding relies on the confinement of the dynamics of the system onto the two-dimensional manifold spanned by Schrödinger cats of opposite parity. In dissipative cat qubits, an engineered dissipation scheme combining two-photon drive and two-photon loss has been used to autonomously stabilize this manifold, ensuring passive protection against, e.g., bit-flip errors regardless of their origin. Similarly, in Kerr-cat qubits, where highly performing gates can be engineered, two-photon drive and Kerr nonlinearity cooperate to confine the system to a twofold-degenerate ground-state manifold spanned by cat states of opposite parity. Dissipative, Hamiltonian, and hybrid confinement mechanisms have been investigated at resonance, i.e., for driving frequencies matching that of the cavity. Here, we propose a critical cat code, where both two-photon loss and Kerr nonlinearity are present and the two-photon drive is allowed to be out of resonance. The performance of this code is assessed via the spectral theory of Liouvillians in all configurations ranging from the purely dissipative to the Kerr limit. We show that large detunings and small, but non-negligible, two-photon loss rates are fundamental to achieve optimal performance. We further demonstrate that the competition between nonlinearity and detuning results in a first-order dissipative phase transition, leading to a squeezed vacuum steady state. We show that to achieve the maximal suppression of the logical bit-flip rate requires initializing the system in the metastable state emerging from the first-order transition and we detail a protocol to do so. Efficiently operating over a broad range of detuning values, the critical cat code is particularly resistant to random frequency shifts characterizing multiple-qubit operations, opening avenues for the realization of reliable protocols for scalable and concatenated bosonic qubit architectures.
Trapped atomic ion qubits or effective spins are a powerful quantum platform for quantum computation and simulation, featuring densely connected and efficiently programmable interactions between the spins. While native interactions between trapped-ion spins are typically pairwise, many quantum algorithms and quantum spin models naturally feature couplings between triplets, quartets, or higher orders of spins. Here, we formulate and analyze a mechanism that extends the standard Mølmer-Sørensen pairwise entangling gate and generates a controllable and programmable coupling between N spins of trapped ions. We show that spin-dependent optical parametric drives applied at twice the motional frequency generate a coordinate transformation of the collective ion motion in phase space, rendering displacement forces that are nonlinear in the spin operators. We formulate a simple framework that enables a systematic and faithful construction of high-order spin Hamiltonians and gates, including the effect of multiple modes of motion, and characterize the performance of such operations under realistic conditions.
We demonstrate high-fidelity repetitive measurements of nuclear spin qubits in an array of neutral ytterbium-171 ( 171 Yb) atoms. We show that the qubit state can be measured with a spin-flip probability of 0.004(4) for a single tweezer and 0.012(3) averaged over the array. This is accomplished by high cyclicity of one of the nuclear spin qubit states with an optically excited state under a magnetic field of B = 58 G, resulting in a spin-flip probability of approximately 10 -5 per scattered photon during fluorescence readout. The performance improves further as ∼ 1/B 2 . The state discrimination fidelity is 0.993(4) with a state-averaged readout survival of 0.994(3), limited by off-resonant scattering to dark states. We combine our measurement technique with high-contrast rotations of the nuclear spin qubit via an ac magnetic field to explore two paradigmatic scenarios, including the noncommutativity of measurements in orthogonal bases, and the quantum Zeno mechanism in which measurements "freeze" coherent evolution. Finally, we employ real-time feedforward to repetitively and deterministically prepare the qubit in the +z or -z direction after initializing it in a different basis and performing a measurement in the Z basis. These capabilities constitute an important step towards adaptive quantum circuits with atom arrays.
One of the most formidable challenges of scaling up quantum computers is that of control-signal delivery. Today's small-scale quantum computers typically connect each qubit to one or more separate external signal sources. This approach is not scalable due to the input/output (I/O) limitations of the qubit chip, necessitating the integration of control electronics. However, it is no small feat to shrink control electronics into a small package that is compatible with qubit-chip fabrication and operational constraints without sacrificing performance. This so-called "wiring challenge" is likely to impact the development of more powerful quantum computers even in the near term. In this paper, we address the wiring challenge of trapped-ion quantum computers. We describe a control architecture called WISE (Wiring using Integrated Switching Electronics), which significantly reduces the I/O requirements of ion-trap quantum computing chips without compromising performance. Our method relies on judiciously integrating simple switching electronics into the ion-trap chip-in a way that is compatible with its fabrication and operation constraints-while the complex electronics remain external. To demonstrate its power, we describe how the WISE architecture can be used to operate a fully connected 1000-qubit trapped-ion quantum computer using approximately 200 signal sources at a speed of approximately 40-2600 quantum gate layers per second.
W states are a valuable resource for various quantum information tasks, and several protocols to generate them have been proposed and implemented. We introduce a quantum repeater protocol to efficiently distribute three-qubit W states over arbitrary distances in a two-dimensional triangular quantum network with polylogarithmic overhead, thereby enabling these applications between remote parties. The repeater protocol combines two ingredients that we establish: probabilistic entanglement swapping with three copies of three-qubit W states to a single long-distance three-qubit W state, and an improved entanglement purification protocol. The latter not only shows a better performance, but also an enlarged purification regime as compared to previous approaches. We show that the repeater protocol allows one to deal with errors resulting from imperfect channels or state preparation, and noisy operations, and we analyze error thresholds, achievable fidelities, and overheads.
A prerequisite to the successful development of quantum computers and simulators is precise understanding of the physical processes occurring therein, which can be achieved by measuring the quantum states that they produce. However, the resources required for traditional quantum state estimation scale exponentially with the system size, highlighting the need for alternative approaches. Here, we demonstrate an efficient method for reconstruction of significantly entangled multiqubit quantum states. Using a variational version of the matrix-product-state ansatz, we perform the tomography (in the pure-state approximation) of quantum states produced in a 20-qubit trapped-ion Ising-type quantum simulator, using the data acquired in only 27 bases, with 1000 measurements in each basis. We observe superior statereconstruction quality and faster convergence compared to the methods based on neural-network quantum state representations: restricted Boltzmann machines and feed-forward neural networks with autoregressive architecture. Our results pave the way toward efficient experimental characterization of complex states produced by the quench dynamics of many-body quantum systems.
Reconstructing the Hamiltonian of a quantum system is an essential task for characterizing and certifying quantum processors and simulators. Existing techniques either rely on projective measurements of the system before and after coherent time evolution and do not explicitly reconstruct the full time-dependent Hamiltonian or interrupt evolution for tomography. Here, we experimentally demonstrate that an a priori unknown, time-dependent Hamiltonian can be reconstructed from continuous weak measurements concurrent with coherent time evolution in a system of two superconducting transmons coupled by a flux-tunable coupler. In contrast to previous work, our technique does not require interruptions, which would distort the recovered Hamiltonian. We introduce an algorithm, which recovers the Hamiltonian and density matrix from an incomplete set of continuous measurements, and demonstrate that it reliably extracts amplitudes of a variety of single-qubit and entangling two-qubit Hamiltonians. We further demonstrate how this technique reveals deviations from a theoretical control Hamiltonian, which would otherwise be missed by conventional techniques. Our work opens up novel applications for continuous weak measurements, such as studying nonidealities in gates, certifying analog quantum simulators, and performing quantum metrology.
Assembling and maintaining large arrays of individually addressable atoms is a key requirement for continued scaling of neutral-atom-based quantum computers and simulators. In this work, we demonstrate a new paradigm for assembly of atomic arrays, based on a synergistic combination of optical tweezers and cavity-enhanced optical lattices, and the incremental filling of a target array from a repetitively filled reservoir. In this protocol, the tweezers provide microscopic rearrangement of atoms, while the cavityenhanced lattices enable the creation of large numbers of optical traps with sufficient depth for rapid low-loss imaging of atoms. We apply this protocol to demonstrate near-deterministic filling (99% per-site occupancy) of 1225-site arrays of optical traps. Because the reservoir is repeatedly filled with fresh atoms, the array can be maintained in a filled state indefinitely. We anticipate that this protocol will be compatible with mid-circuit reloading of atoms into a quantum processor, which will be a key capability for running large-scale error-corrected quantum computations whose durations exceed the lifetime of a single atom in the system.
Polar molecules are a quantum resource with rich internal structure that can be coherently controlled. The structure, however, also makes the state preparation and measurement (SPAM) of molecules challenging. We advance the SPAM of individual molecules assembled from constituent atoms trapped in optical-tweezer arrays. Sites without NaCs molecules are eliminated using high-fidelity Cs atom detection, increasing the peak molecule filling fraction of the array threefold. We site-selectively initialize the array in a rotational qubit subspace that is insensitive to differential ac Stark shifts from the optical tweezer. Lastly, we detect multiple rotational states per experimental cycle by imaging atoms after sequential stateselective dissociations. These demonstrations extend the SPAM capabilities of molecules for quantum information, simulation, and metrology.
We describe quantum circuits with only O(N ) Toffoli complexity that block encode the spectra of quantum chemistry Hamiltonians in a basis of N arbitrary (e.g., molecular) orbitals. With O(λ/ ) repetitions of these circuits one can use phase estimation to sample in the molecular eigenbasis, where λ is the 1-norm of Hamiltonian coefficients and is the target precision. This is the lowest complexity shown for quantum computations of chemistry within an arbitrary basis. Furthermore, up to logarithmic factors, this matches the scaling of the most efficient prior block encodings that can work only with orthogonal-basis functions diagonalizing the Coloumb operator (e.g., the plane-wave dual basis). Our key insight is to factorize the Hamiltonian using a method known as tensor hypercontraction (THC) and then to transform the Coulomb operator into an isospectral diagonal form with a nonorthogonal basis defined by the THC factors. We then use qubitization to simulate the nonorthogonal THC Hamiltonian, in a fashion that avoids most complications of the nonorthogonal basis. We also reanalyze and reduce the cost of several of the best prior algorithms for these simulations in order to facilitate a clear comparison to the present work. In addition to having lower asymptotic scaling space-time volume, compilation of our algorithm for challenging finitesized molecules such as FeMoCo reveals that our method requires the least fault-tolerant resources of any known approach. By laying out and optimizing the surface-code resources required of our approach we show that FeMoCo can be simulated using about four million physical qubits and under 4 days of runtime, assuming 1-μs cycle times and physical gate-error rates no worse than 0.1%.
This tutorial aims at giving an introductory treatment of the circuit analysis of superconducting qubits, i.e., two-level systems in superconducting circuits. It also touches upon couplings between such qubits and how microwave driving and these couplings can be used for single-and two-qubit gates, as well as how to include noise when calculating the dynamics of the system. We also discuss higher-dimensional superconducting qudits. The tutorial is intended for new researchers with limited or no experience with the field but should be accessible to anyone with a bachelor's degree in physics. The tutorial introduces the basic methods used in quantum circuit analysis, starting from a circuit diagram and ending with a quantized Hamiltonian, that may be truncated to the lowest levels. We provide examples of all the basic techniques throughout the discussion, while in the last part of the tutorial we discuss several of the most commonly used circuits for quantum-information applications. This includes both worked examples of single qubits and examples of how to analyze the coupling methods that allow multiqubit operations. In several detailed appendices, we provide the interested reader with an introduction to more advanced techniques for handling larger circuit designs.
Magnetic impurities in s-wave superconductors lead to spin-polarized Yu-Shiba-Rusinov (YSR) in-gap states. Chains of magnetic impurities offer one of the most viable routes for the realization of Majorana bound states, which hold promise for topological quantum computing. However, this ambitious goal looks distant, since no quantum coherent degrees of freedom have yet been identified in these systems. To fill this gap, we propose an effective two-level system, a YSR qubit, stemming from two nearby impurities. Using a time-dependent wave-function approach, we derive an effective Hamiltonian describing the YSR-qubit evolution as a function of the distance between the impurity spins, their relative orientations, and their dynamics. We show that the YSR qubit can be controlled and read out using state-of-the-art experimental techniques for manipulation of the spins. Finally, we address the effect of spin noise on the coherence properties of the YSR qubit and show robust behavior for a wide range of experimentally relevant parameters. Looking forward, the YSR qubit could facilitate the implementation of a universal set of quantum gates in hybrid systems where they are coupled to topological Majorana qubits.
Building on the development of momentum state lattices (MSLs) over the past decade, we introduce a simple extension of this technique to higher dimensions. Based on the selective addressing of unique Bragg resonances in matter-wave systems, MSLs have enabled the realization of tight-binding models with tunable disorder, gauge fields, non-Hermiticity, and other features. Here, we examine and outline an experimental approach to building scalable and tunable tight-binding models in two dimensions describing the laser-driven dynamics of atoms in momentum space. Using numerical simulations, we highlight some of the simplest models and types of phenomena this system is well suited to address, including flat-band models with kinetic frustration and flux lattices supporting topological boundary states. Finally, we discuss many of the direct extensions to this model, including the introduction of disorder and non-Hermiticity, which will enable the exploration of new transport and localization phenomena in higher dimensions.
Quantum computers are expected to achieve a significant speed-up over classical computers in solving a range of computational problems. Chains of ions held in a linear Paul trap are a promising platform for constructing such quantum computers, due to their long coherence times and high quality of control. Here, we report on the construction of a small five-qubit universal quantum computer using 88 Sr + ions in a radiofrequency (rf) trap. All basic operations, including initialization, quantum logic operations, and readout, are performed with high fidelity. Selective two-qubit and single-qubit gates, implemented using a narrowline-width laser, comprise a universal gate set, allowing realization of any unitary on the quantum register. We review the main experimental tools and describe in detail unique aspects of the computer: the use of robust entangling gates and the development of a quantum coherent feedback system through electronmultiplying CCD camera acquisition. The latter is necessary for carrying out quantum error-correction protocols in future experiments.
We demonstrate a cavity-based solution to scale up experiments with ultracold atoms in optical lattices by an order of magnitude over state-of-the-art free-space lattices. Our two-dimensional (2D) optical lattices are created by power-enhancement cavities with large mode waists of 489(8) μm and allow us to trap ultracold strontium atoms at a lattice depth of 60 μK by using only 80 mW of input light per cavity axis. We characterize these lattices using high-resolution clock spectroscopy and resolve carrier transitions between different vibrational levels. With these spectral features, we locally measure the lattice potential envelope and the sample temperature with a spatial resolution limited only by the optical resolution of the imaging system. The measured ground-band and trap lifetimes are 18(3) s and 59(2) s, respectively, and the lattice frequency (depth) is long-term stable on the megahertz (0.1%) level. Our results show that large, deep, and stable 2D cavity-enhanced lattices can be created at any wavelength and can significantly increase the qubit number for neutral-atom-based quantum simulators, quantum computers, sensors, and optical-lattice clocks.
We describe a linear quantum optical circuit capable of demonstrating a simple quantum-error-correction code in a four-photon experiment.
Data mining applications are becoming a more common tool in understanding and solving educational and administrative problems in higher education. In general, research in educational mining focuses on modeling student's performance instead of instructors' performance. One of the common tools to evaluate instructors' performance is the course evaluation questionnaire to evaluate based on students' perception. In this paper, four different classification techniques-decision tree algorithms, support vector machines, artificial neural networks, and discriminant analysis-are used to build classifier models. Their performances are compared over a data set composed of responses of students to a real course evaluation questionnaire using accuracy, precision, recall, and specificity performance metrics. Although all the classifier models show comparably high classification performances, C5.0 classifier is the best with respect to accuracy, precision, and specificity. In addition, an analysis of the variable importance for each classifier model is done. Accordingly, it is shown that many of the questions in the course evaluation questionnaire appear to be irrelevant. Furthermore, the analysis shows that the instructors' success based on the students' perception mainly depends on the interest of the students in the course. The findings of this paper indicate the effectiveness and expressiveness of data mining models in course evaluation and higher education mining. Moreover, these findings may be used to improve the measurement instruments.
Mobile web traffic analytics helps mobile network operators to understand subscriber behaviors and network characteristics. With the increasing prevalence of mobile devices, people are prone to access Internet by mobile devices. Meanwhile, a large amount of applications and services are being moved to the mobile web. These changes have resulted in the elevated complexity of mobile web traffic. Consequently, original web traffic models require an adjustment, and network understanding methods also need to update. In this paper, we proposed a stream algorithm to identify user click requests, and reconstructed user-browser interactions by leveraging Spark Streaming framework. The proposed algorithm was tested by massive real HTTP traffic records, which were captured from a cellular core network by high-performance monitoring devices. A statistical analysis was made on the reconstructed data set, and the overall characteristics of mobile web traffic were presented as well. Finally, major improvements in mobile web traffic models were obtained, and the key factors affecting web performance were found. We believe that our models and findings can be useful for mobile network operators to exhaustively understand the mobile web traffic and effectively analyze subscriber behaviors.
Semiconductor quantum dots are currently emerging as one of the most promising sources of non-classical light on which to base future quantum networks. They can generate single photons as well as pairs of entangled photons with unprecedented brightness, indistinguishability, and degree of entanglement. These features have very recently opened up the possibility to perform advanced quantum optics protocols that were previously inaccessible to single quantum emitters. In this work, we report on two experiments that use the non-local properties of entanglement to teleport quantum states: threephoton state teleportation and four-photon entanglement teleportation. We discuss all the experimental results in light of a theoretical model that we develop to account for the non-idealities of the quantum source. The excellent agreement between theory and experiment enables a deep understanding of how each parameter of the source affects the teleportation fidelities and it pinpoints the requirements needed to overcome the classical limits. Finally, our model suggests how to further improve quantum-dot entangled-photon sources for practical quantum networks.
GeSn waveguide photodetectors (WGPDs) that function in the 2-µm band have been considered potentially competitive candidates for cryogenic silicon photonics to enable various emerging applications such as quantum sensing and quantum computing. Herein, we present a high-performance GeSn rib WGPD that can function within the 2-µm spectral range and its temperaturedependent characteristics. The proposed detectors feature a GeSn active layer with 4.9% Sn which redshifts the cutoff wavelength to cover the 2-µm band. In addition, the optical confinement factor was enhanced by growing a thick GeSn active layer. This resulted in a room temperature responsivity of 0.224 A/W at λ = 1900 nm. We measured a noise equivalent power of 9.5 × 10 -10 W/Hz 1/2 at λ = 1550 nm, confirming the practical viability of the proposed detector. Moreover, the temperature-dependent characteristics indicate that the dark current density (J dark ) variation is extremely low and responsivity decreases at low temperatures, leading to decreased spectral detectivity (D * ), whereas the cut-off wavelength (λ c ) blueshifts owing to the increased bandgap. The temperaturedependent characteristics of the proposed GeSn WGPDs are expected to advance the understanding of GeSn WGPDs for cryogenic silicon photonics.
and cysteine are converted by Legionella to pyruvate, followed by acetyl coenzyme A (CoA) that feeds the TCA cycle (fig. 
the inorganic components, the phage are participants rather than bystanders in the assembly process. Relatively small (~20 nm in diameter) particles are easily organized into the layered structure formed by the viral rods, leading to well-populated lines only a few tens of nanometers across spaced by the length of the bacteriophages. Incor-poration of various appropriate molecular components could allow this self-assembly process to generate a variety of optical, electronic, or magnetic devices.
schemes, honed to protect both biodiversity and other ecosystem services, are being implemented, aligning economic forces with conservation.
where ⌫ ϭ4L/[ln(L/2R) ϩ 0.84] is the Stokes drag coefficient for a cylinder (26), and is the effective viscosity of the nematic. The solid lines in Fig. 
temperature of È700-to 800-C in an argon atmosphere, under which the possibility of neutralizing the surface polar charges by adsorbing foreign molecules is unlikely, provided the growth occurred fairly quickly. This result is consistent with our previous studies [see (7)(8)(9)]. 15. From the energy point of view, a polar-surfacedominated nanobelt tends to fold itself into a ring or spring for reducing electrostatic energy (6). The nanoring is stable if the ratio between nanobelt thickness, t, and the radius, R, of the nanoring is smaller than È3% (8). Nanorings with t/R 9 3% are energetically unfavorable to form.
verse order, as in this case, is the real essence of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Besides its fundamental importance, the experimental implementation of such a sequence of basic quantum operations is an essential tool for the full-scale engineering of a quantum light state optimized for a multitude of different tasks (15), including robust quantum communication. As any quantum operation, including non-Gaussian operations, is composed of photon additions and subtractions (i.e, it can be expressed as f ð% a; % a † Þ), our experimental results constitute a step toward the full quantum control of a field and the generation of highly entangled states ( 
requires coupling efficiencies that are higher than the observed 2 to 5%. This technical challenge can be overcome. We have already demonstrated architecture for a QD cavity-waveguide-coupled quantum network (24) with coupling efficiency above 50% between two nodes, and cavitywaveguide couplers (25) with coupling efficiency reaching 90%. The observed fluorescence losses are already sufficiently low to allow scalable computation ( 
candidates for this scenario). All of this leads us to predict that within the diverse ensemble of planetary systems, ones resembling our own are the exception rather than the rule. Observations may be hinting at this already (30), although the true planet distribution remains largely obscured by selection effects (25). On the other hand, scaled-down versions of the solar system, in which a moderate amount of migration took place, are likely to be more common; indeed, such a system has recently been discovered through microlensing (31). Finally, scenarios in which type II migration is reduced (32, 33) would modify our prediction, permitting a more common occurrence of solar system analogs.
A topologically ordered material is characterized by a rare quantum organization of electrons that evades the conventional spontaneously broken symmetry-based classification of condensed matter. Exotic spin-transport phenomena, such as the dissipationless quantum spin Hall effect, have been speculated to originate from a topological order whose identification requires a spin-sensitive measurement, which does not exist to this date in any system. Using Mott polarimetry, we probed the spin degrees of freedom and demonstrated that topological quantum numbers are completely determined from spin texture-imaging measurements. Applying this method to Sb and Bi 1-x Sb x , we identified the origin of its topological order and unusual chiral properties. These results taken together constitute the first observation of surface electrons collectively carrying a topological quantum Berry's phase and definite spin chirality, which are the key electronic properties component for realizing topological quantum computing bits with intrinsic spin Hall-like topological phenomena.
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only.
The von Neumann architecture for a classical computer comprises a central processing unit and a memory holding instructions and data. We demonstrate a quantum central processing unit that exchanges data with a quantum random-access memory integrated on a chip, with instructions stored on a classical computer. We test our quantum machine by executing codes that involve seven quantum elements: Two superconducting qubits coupled through a quantum bus, two quantum memories, and two zeroing registers. Two vital algorithms for quantum computing are demonstrated, the quantum Fourier transform, with 66% process fidelity, and the three-qubit Toffoli-class OR phase gate, with 98% phase fidelity. Our results, in combination especially with longer qubit coherence, illustrate a potentially viable approach to factoring numbers and implementing simple quantum error correction codes.
The reliable transmission of quantum states between remote locations is a major open challenge in quantum science. Quantum state transfer between nodes containing long-lived qubits (1-3) can extend quantum key distribution to long distances (4), enable blind quantum computing in the cloud (5) and serve as a critical primitive for a future quantum network (6). When provided with a single copy of an unknown quantum state, directly sending the state in a carrier such as a photon is unreliable due to inevitable losses. Creating and sending several copies of the state to counteract such transmission losses is impossible by the no-cloning theorem (7). Nevertheless, quantum information can be faithfully transmitted over arbitrary distances through quantum teleportation provided the network parties (named "Alice" and "Bob") have previously established a shared entangled state and can communicate classically (8-11).
bulge and the LMC is not easy. In particular, the contribution to the observed lensing frequency from stars in our own galactic disc and in the LMC must be established more reliably.
scrilye a nolsy iluantum net\vork, we introduce t h e notion o t error locations. \\-hich Practical realization of quantum computers will require overcoming decoherence and operational errors, which lead to problems that are more severe than in classical computation. It is shown that arbitrarily accurate quantum computation is possible provided that the error per operation is below a threshold value.
The Advantages of Superposition Lov K. Grover
Quantum computers could revolutionize many branches of science through their ability to tackle problems too large for any classical computer. Although the theory is well understood [see the accompanying cornmen-
ternal states of a single ion and one of its rocking or "motional" states. This state was too susceptible to outside disturbances to serve as a
Earth's, so most researchers aren't yet ready to embrace martian plate tectonics. "You wouldn't say this is a dead ringer for the sea floor," notes paleomagnetist Robert Coe of the University of California, Santa Cruz. The martian stripes are 10 times wider than Earth's, implying faster spreading, slower magnetic field reversals, or both; they are also far less regular in shape and spacing; and the symmetrical pattern of stripes on either side of a spreading center, the clincher in the plate tectonics debate, is not yet apparent. Indeed, there's no sign of a "spreading center" at all. Says Menill: "If plate tectonics was operating on Mars, it worked differently or it was recorded differently by the rocks."
a 10-ns oulsed laser beam with a line width of -0.5 cm-I, tuned to 1.08 km. This beam lnformation Storage and excites the cesium atoms from the 6s ground -
whaling practiced until some 18 years ago. If salesman who must visit every city on his tum computer running the algorithm, by wblers consistently took the larger, older in-map once and only once. As the number of running in sequence the operations that a dividuals, he suggests, the groups may have cities increases, the problem quickly bequantum machine would perform simultane "lost their social knowledge and may be less comes so complex dLaf in g e n d conven-ously. Then they fed it various combinations
Schwartz's decision to seek patents was "premature" and may have compromised Mirkin'
and do not show any notable broadening in the presence of the microwave drive.
A promising route for creating topological states and excitations is to combine superconductivity and the quantum Hall (QH) effect. Despite this potential, signatures of superconductivity in the QH regime remain scarce, and a superconducting current through a QH weak link has been challenging to observe. We demonstrate the existence of a distinct supercurrent mechanism in encapsulated graphene samples contacted by superconducting electrodes, in magnetic fields as high as 2 tesla. The observation of a supercurrent in the QH regime marks an important step in the quest for exotic topological excitations, such as Majorana fermions and parafermions, which may find applications in fault-tolerant quantum computing.
Complex optical photon states with entanglement shared among several modes are critical to improving our fundamental understanding of quantum mechanics and have applications for quantum information processing, imaging, and microscopy. We demonstrate that optical integrated Kerr frequency combs can be used to generate several bi-and multiphoton entangled qubits, with direct applications for quantum communication and computation. Our method is compatible with contemporary fiber and quantum memory infrastructures and with chip-scale semiconductor technology, enabling compact, low-cost, and scalable implementations. The exploitation of integrated Kerr frequency combs, with their ability to generate multiple, customizable, and complex quantum states, can provide a scalable, practical, and compact platform for quantum technologies.
faults. We have demonstrated this phenomenon in a friction-based fault model, but the overall dynamics of the process should be similar for viscoplastic deeper fault extensions, which may dynamically localize and weaken due to shearheating and strain-rate effects during large earthquakes ( 
does not rule out contributions of fainter, currently undetected galaxies to the ionizing emissivity. The ISM properties of SXDF-NB1006-2, with little dust and H I gas, may make this galaxy a prototypical example of a source of cosmic reionization.
Majorana fermion is a hypothetical particle that is its own antiparticle. We report transport measurements that suggest the existence of one-dimensional chiral Majorana fermion modes in the hybrid system of a quantum anomalous Hall insulator thin film coupled with a superconductor. As the external magnetic field is swept, half-integer quantized conductance plateaus are observed at the locations of magnetization reversals, giving a distinct signature of the Majorana fermion modes. This transport signature is reproducible over many magnetic field sweeps and appears at different temperatures. This finding may open up an avenue to control Majorana fermions for implementing robust topological quantum computing.
The realization of large-scale fully controllable quantum systems is an exciting frontier in modern physical science. We use atom-by-atom assembly to implement a platform for the deterministic preparation of regular one-dimensional arrays of individually controlled cold atoms. In our approach, a measurement and feedback procedure eliminates the entropy associated with probabilistic trap occupation and results in defect-free arrays of over 50 atoms in less than 400 milliseconds. The technique is based on fast, realtime control of 100 optical tweezers, which we use to arrange atoms in desired geometric patterns and to maintain these configurations by replacing lost atoms with surplus atoms from a reservoir. This bottomup approach may enable controlled engineering of scalable many-body systems for quantum information processing, quantum simulations, and precision measurements.
Two-dimensional (2D) materials offer a promising platform for exploring condensed matter phenomena and developing technological applications. However, the reduction of material dimensions to the atomic scale poses a challenge for traditional measurement and interfacing techniques that typically couple to macroscopic observables. We demonstrate a method for probing the properties of 2D materials via nanometer-scale nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR) spectroscopy using individual atom-like impurities in diamond. Coherent manipulation of shallow nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers enables the probing of nanoscale ensembles down to ~30 nuclear spins in atomically thin hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN). The characterization of low-dimensional nanoscale materials could enable the development of new quantum hybrid systems, combining atom-like systems coherently coupled with individual atoms in 2D materials.
Topological superconductors are predicted to host exotic Majorana states that obey non-Abelian statistics and can be used to implement a topological quantum computer. Most of the proposed topological superconductors are realized in difficult-to-fabricate heterostructures at very low temperatures. Here by using high-resolution spin-resolved and angle-resolved photoelectron spectroscopy, we find that the iron-based superconductor FeTe1-xSex (x = 0.45, superconducting transition temperature Tc = 14.5 K) hosts Dirac-cone type spin-helical surface states at Fermi level; the surface states exhibit an s-wave superconducting gap below Tc. Our study shows that the surface states of FeTe0.55Se0.45 are 2D topologically superconducting, providing a simple and possibly high temperature platform for realizing Majorana states.
Modern quantum technologies in the fields of quantum computing, quantum simulation, and quantum metrology require the creation and control of large ensembles of entangled particles. In ultracold ensembles of neutral atoms, nonclassical states have been generated with mutual entanglement among thousands of particles. The entanglement generation relies on the fundamental particle-exchange symmetry in ensembles of identical particles, which lacks the standard notion of entanglement between clearly definable subsystems. Here, we present the generation of entanglement between two spatially separated clouds by splitting an ensemble of ultracold identical particles prepared in a twin Fock state. Because the clouds can be addressed individually, our experiments open a path to exploit the available entangled states of indistinguishable particles for quantum information applications.
Long coherence times of single spins in silicon quantum dots make these systems highly attractive for quantum computation, but how to scale up spin qubit systems remains an open question. As a first step to address this issue, we report the strong coupling of a single electron spin and a single microwave photon. The electron spin is trapped in a silicon double quantum dot and the microwave photon is stored in an on-chip high-impedance superconducting resonator. The electric field component of the cavity photon couples directly to the charge dipole of the electron in the double dot, and indirectly to the electron spin, through a strong local magnetic field gradient from a nearby micromagnet. Our results provide a route to realizing large networks of quantum dot based spin qubit registers.
The robust generation and propagation of multiphoton quantum states are crucial for applications in quantum information, computing, and communications. Although photons are intrinsically well isolated from the thermal environment, scaling to large quantum optical devices is still limited by scattering loss and other errors arising from random fabrication imperfections. The recent discoveries regarding topological phases have introduced avenues to construct quantum systems that are protected against scattering and imperfections. We experimentally demonstrate topological protection of biphoton states, the building block for quantum information systems. We provide clear evidence of the robustness of the spatial features and the propagation constant of biphoton states generated within a nanophotonics lattice with nontrivial topology and propose a concrete path to build robust entangled states for quantum gates.
Magnetic flux quantization is one of the defining properties of a superconductor. We report the observation of half-integer magnetic flux quantization in mesoscopic rings of superconducting b-Bi 2 Pd thin films. The half-quantum fluxoid manifests itself as a p phase shift in the quantum oscillation of the superconducting critical temperature. This result verifies unconventional superconductivity of b-Bi 2 Pd and is consistent with a spin-triplet pairing symmetry. Our findings may have implications for flux quantum bits in the context of quantum computing.
Coherent excitation of an ensemble of quantum objects underpins quantum many-body phenomena and offers the opportunity to realize a memory that stores quantum information. Thus far, a deterministic and coherent interface between a spin qubit and such an ensemble has remained elusive. Here, we first use an electron to cool the mesoscopic nuclear-spin ensemble of a semiconductor quantum dot to the nuclear sideband-resolved regime. We then implement an all-optical approach to access individual quantized electronic-nuclear spin transitions. Finally, we perform coherent optical rotations of a single collective nuclear spin excitation-a spin wave. These results constitute the building blocks of a dedicated local memory per quantum-dot spin qubit and promise a solid-state platform for quantum-state engineering of isolated many-body systems.
Multipartite entangled states are crucial for numerous applications in quantum information science. However, the generation and verification of multipartite entanglement on fully controllable and scalable quantum platforms remains an outstanding challenge. We report the deterministic generation of an 18-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state and multicomponent atomic Schrödinger cat states of up to 20 qubits on a quantum processor, which features 20 superconducting qubits, also referred to as artificial atoms, interconnected by a bus resonator. By engineering a one-axis twisting Hamiltonian, the system of qubits, once initialized, coherently evolves to multicomponent atomic Schrödinger cat states-that is, superpositions of atomic coherent states including the GHZ state-at specific time intervals as expected. Our approach on a solid-state platform should not only stimulate interest in exploring the fundamental physics of quantum many-body systems, but also enable the development of applications in practical quantum metrology and quantum information processing.
Google AI Quantum and Collaborators
Artificial spin ices are frustrated spin systems that can be engineered, in which fine tuning of geometry and topology has allowed the design and characterization of exotic emergent phenomena at the constituent level. Here, we report a realization of spin ice in a lattice of superconducting qubits. Unlike conventional artificial spin ice, our system is disordered by both quantum and thermal fluctuations. The ground state is classically described by the ice rule, and we achieved control over a fragile degeneracy point, leading to a Coulomb phase. The ability to pin individual spins allows us to demonstrate Gauss's law for emergent effective monopoles in two dimensions. The demonstrated qubit control lays the groundwork for potential future study of topologically protected artificial quantum spin liquids.
Quantum walks are the quantum mechanical analog of classical random walks and an extremely powerful tool in quantum simulations, quantum search algorithms, and even for universal quantum computing. In our work, we have designed and fabricated an 8-by-8 two-dimensional square superconducting qubit array composed of 62 functional qubits. We used this device to demonstrate high-fidelity single-and two-particle quantum walks. Furthermore, with the high programmability of the quantum processor, we implemented a Mach-Zehnder interferometer where the quantum walker coherently traverses in two paths before interfering and exiting. By tuning the disorders on the evolution paths, we observed interference fringes with single and double walkers. Our work is a milestone in the field, bringing future larger-scale quantum applications closer to realization for noisy intermediate-scale quantum processors.
The discovery of topological order has revised the understanding of quantum matter and provided the theoretical foundation for many quantum error-correcting codes. Realizing topologically ordered states has proven to be challenging in both condensed matter and synthetic quantum systems. We prepared the ground state of the toric code Hamiltonian using an efficient quantum circuit on a superconducting quantum processor. We measured a topological entanglement entropy near the expected value of -ln2 and simulated anyon interferometry to extract the braiding statistics of the emergent excitations. Furthermore, we investigated key aspects of the surface code, including logical state injection and the decay of the nonlocal order parameter. Our results demonstrate the potential for quantum processors to provide insights into topological quantum matter and quantum error correction.
Quantum spin liquids, exotic phases of matter with topological order, have been a major focus in physics for the past several decades. Such phases feature long-range quantum entanglement that can potentially be exploited to realize robust quantum computation. We used a 219-atom programmable quantum simulator to probe quantum spin liquid states. In our approach, arrays of atoms were placed on the links of a kagome lattice, and evolution under Rydberg blockade created frustrated quantum states with no local order. The onset of a quantum spin liquid phase of the paradigmatic toric code type was detected by using topological string operators that provide direct signatures of topological order and quantum correlations. Our observations enable the controlled experimental exploration of topological matter and protected quantum information processing.
By harnessing the power of the Google Sycamore processor (pictured here), Huang et al. showcase the exponential advantages offered by quantum computers for analyzing data from quantum experiments.
Long-distance quantum communication and networking require quantum memory nodes with efficient optical interfaces and long memory times. We report the realization of an integrated two-qubit network node based on silicon-vacancy centers (SiVs) in diamond nanophotonic cavities. Our qubit register consists of the SiV electron spin acting as a communication qubit and the strongly coupled silicon-29 nuclear spin acting as a memory qubit with a quantum memory time exceeding 2 seconds. By using a highly strained SiV, we realize electron-photon entangling gates at temperatures up to 1.5 kelvin and nucleus-photon entangling gates up to 4.3 kelvin. We also demonstrate efficient error detection in nuclear spin-photon gates by using the electron spin as a flag qubit, making this platform a promising candidate for scalable quantum repeaters.
Scaling up invariably error-prone quantum processors is a formidable challenge. Although quantum error correction ultimately promises fault-tolerant operation, the required qubit overhead and error thresholds are daunting. In a complementary proposal, colocated, auxiliary "spectator" qubits act as in situ probes of noise and enable real-time, coherent corrections of data qubit errors. We used an array of cesium spectator qubits to correct correlated phase errors on an array of rubidium data qubits. By combining in-sequence readout, data processing, and feedforward operations, these correlated errors were suppressed within the execution of the quantum circuit. The protocol is broadly applicable to quantum information platforms and establishes key tools for scaling neutral-atom quantum processors: mid-circuit readout of atom arrays, real-time processing and feedforward, and coherent mid-circuit reloading of atomic qubits.
Photon emission is the hallmark of light-matter interaction and the foundation of photonic quantum science, enabling advanced sources for quantum communication and computing. Although singleemitter radiation can be tailored by the photonic environment, the introduction of multiple emitters extends this picture. A fundamental challenge, however, is that the radiative dipole-dipole coupling rapidly decays with spatial separation, typically within a fraction of the optical wavelength. We realize distant dipole-dipole radiative coupling with pairs of solid-state optical quantum emitters embedded in a nanophotonic waveguide. We dynamically probe the collective response and identify both super-and subradiant emission as well as means to control the dynamics by proper excitation techniques. Our work constitutes a foundational step toward multiemitter applications for scalable quantum-information processing.
Flying qubits encode quantum information in propagating modes instead of stationary discrete states. Although photonic flying qubits are available, the weak interaction between photons limits the efficiency of conditional quantum gates. Conversely, electronic flying qubits can use Coulomb interactions, but the weaker quantum coherence in conventional semiconductors has hindered their realization. In this work, we engineered on-demand injection of a single electronic flying qubit state and its manipulation over the Bloch sphere. The flying qubit is a Leviton propagating in quantum Hall edge channels of a high-mobility graphene monolayer. Although single-shot qubit readout and two-qubit operations are still needed for a viable manipulation of flying qubits, the coherent manipulation of an itinerant electronic state at the single-electron level presents a highly promising alternative to conventional qubits.
Quantum entanglement is a key resource in currently developed quantum technologies. Sharing this fragile property between superconducting microwave circuits and optical or atomic systems would enable new functionalities, but this has been hindered by an energy scale mismatch of >10 4 and the resulting mutually imposed loss and noise. In this work, we created and verified entanglement between microwave and optical fields in a millikelvin environment. Using an optically pulsed superconducting electro-optical device, we show entanglement between propagating microwave and optical fields in the continuous variable domain. This achievement not only paves the way for entanglement between superconducting circuits and telecom wavelength light, but also has wide-ranging implications for hybrid quantum networks in the context of modularization, scaling, sensing, and cross-platform verification.
could bolster fragile quantum computers.
Qubits that can be efficiently controlled are essential for the development of scalable quantum hardware. Although resonant control is used to execute high-fidelity quantum gates, the scalability is challenged by the integration of high-frequency oscillating signals, qubit cross-talk, and heating.
The interplay of topology and optics provides a route to pursue robust photonic devices, with the application to photonic quantum computation in its infancy. However, the possibilities of harnessing topological structures to process quantum information with linear optics, through the quantum interference of photons, remain largely uncharted. Here, we present a Hong-Ou-Mandel interference effect of topological origin. We show that this interference of photon pairs-ranging from constructive to destructive-is solely determined by a synthetic magnetic flux, rendering it resilient to errors on a fundamental level. Our implementation establishes a quantized flux that facilitates exclusively destructive quantum interference. Our findings pave the way toward the development of next-generation photonic quantum circuitry and scalable quantum computing protected by virtue of topologically robust quantum gates.
molecular structures.
A new method of atomic and nuclear orientation and polarization is suggested. The method is based on the use of two coherent resonant phase-shifted monochromatic electromagnetic waves. It is demonstrated that a profound phase-shift-dependent level repopulation can be accomplished in a pulsed mode at room temperature. The possible application of this effect to quantum computers is briefly discussed.
A model of a quantum computer with diagonal continuous interaction between qubits is proposed. Such a computer is controlled only by short single-qubit operations. The realization of quantum Fourier transform and simulation of the wave function of a many-particle problem with linear and quadratic potentials on this quantum computer are discussed. This method applies to a wide class of diagonal interactions and to the case, where the interactions of different qubits are different.
Motivated by recent experiments, we analyze transport of Cooper pairs through a double-island Josephson qubit. At low bias in a certain range of gate voltages, coherent superpositions of charge states play a crucial role. Analysis of the evolution of the density matrix allows us to cover a wide range of parameters, including situations with degenerate levels, when dissipation strongly affects the coherent eigenstates. At high noise levels, the so-called Zeno effect can be observed, which slows down the transport. Our analysis explains certain features of the I -V curves, in particular, the visibility and shape of resonant peaks and lines.
We analyze the dissipative dynamics of a two-level quantum system subject to low-frequency, e.g., 1/ f noise, motivated by recent experiments with superconducting quantum circuits. We show that the effect of transverse linear coupling of the system to low-frequency noise is equivalent to that of quadratic longitudinal coupling. We further find the decay law of quantum coherent oscillations under the influence of both low-and high-frequency fluctuations, in particular, for the case of comparable rates of relaxation and pure dephasing.
Simple majority code correcting k dephasing errors by encoding a qubit of information into 2 k + 1 physical qubits is studied quantitatively. We derive an equation for quasicontinuous evolution of the density matrix of encoded quantum information under the error correction procedure in the presence of correlated dephasing noise. A specific design of a Josephson-junction nanocircuit implementing this scheme is suggested.
We have derived an explicit nonperturbative expression for decoherence of quantum oscillations in a qubit by Gaussian low-frequency noise. Decoherence strength is controlled by the noise spectral density at zero frequency, while the noise correlation time τ determines the time t of crossover from the 1/ to the exponential suppression of coherence. We also performed Monte Carlo simulations of qubit dynamics with noise which agree with the analytical results.
As demonstrated by E. Knill et al. [Nature 409 , 46 (2001)], quantum teleportation and quantum logic gates with a success probability close to one can be implemented using only linear optical elements, additional photons, and post-selection. To do this, it is desirable to have special quantum channels in sight before quantum teleportation performance. Here, we propose an experimental arrangement to generate a two-photon KLM state different from the well-known Bell states. This two-photon KLM state can be used to enhance the success probability of the quantum teleportation of a one-mode quantum qubit from 0.5 up to 2/3.
It is shown that every function computable in time T ( n ) and space S ( n ) on a classical one-dimensional cellular automaton can be computed with certainty in time O ( T 1/2 S ) and space n on a quantum computer with relative diffusion transforms (RDTs) on parts of intermediate products of classical computation. However, in the general case, RDTs cannot be implemented by the conventional quantum computer even with oracles for intermediate results. Such a function can be computed only in time O ( S 4 S /2 T / T 1 ) on the conventional quantum computer with oracles for the intermediate results of classical computations with time T 1 .
A virtual spin formalism is suggested to demonstrate that a single quantum particle possessing eight suitable discrete energy levels can be used for storing three information qubits and organizing on them a universal set of logical operations that are necessary for constructing an arbitrary quantum algorithm. The formalism can be practically implemented on a nuclear spin 7/2 subjected to resonance rf pulses. A single-pulse realization is found for all quantum gates of a universal set, including a three-qubit gate.
We study the Chern-Simons approach to the topological quantum computing. We use quantum R-matrices as universal quantum gates and study the approximations of some one-qubit operations. We make some modifications to the known Solovay-Kitaev algorithm suitable for our particular problem.
The synthesis of quantum circuits for multiplicative inverse over GF (2 8 ) are discussed in this paper. We first convert the multiplicative inverse operation in GF(2 8 ) to arithmetic operations in the composite field GF((2 4 ) 2 ), and then discuss the expressions of the square calculation, the inversion calculation and the multiplication calculation separately in the finite field GF(2 4 ), where the expressions of multiplication calculation in GF(2 4 ) are given directly in GF(2 4 ) and given through being transformed into the composite field GF((2 2 ) 2 ). Then the quantum circuits of these calculations are realized one by one. Finally, two quantum circuits for multiplicative inverse over GF(2 8 ) are synthesized. They both use 21 qubits, the first quantum circuit uses 55 Toffoli gates and 107 CNOT gates and the second one uses 37 Toffoli gates and 209 CNOT gates. As an example of the application of multiplication inverse, we apply these quantum circuits to the implementations of the S-box quantum circuit of the AES cryptographic algorithm. Two quantum circuits for implementing the S-box of the AES cryptographic algorithm are presented. The first quantum circuit uses 21 qubits, 55 Toffoli gates, 131 CNOT gates and 4 NOT gates and the second one uses 21 qubits, 37 Toffoli gates, 233 CNOT gates and 4 NOT gates. Through the evaluation of quantum cost, the two quantum circuits of the S-box of AES cryptographic algorithm use less quantum resources than the existing schemes.
Theoretical study of multi-layered CuO 2 surfaces with localization potential shows that (i) special stable macroscopic quantum states appear when χG = N 3 , where χ is the doping level and G is the unit-cell number, and that (ii) the physical phenomena related to c charge motion takes place just as expected in the fictitious situation where whole uniformly doped holes concentrate in one-side surface. In the dielectric measurement of doping-level dependence and film-thickness dependence on c-oriented La 2-χ SrχCuO 4-δ film, we find that (a) anomalous low-frequency polarization is enhanced when a scaling parameter χG is near to N 3 , that (b) quasi-static measurement of the polarization property in low doped film shows two typical characteristics explicable by the fictitious charge concentrations, and that (c) c small-voltage conduction measurement on low doped film also shows two types of characteristic which are switched each other triggered by laser irradiation. Since these macroscopic quantum effects with plural levels with very long life time are observable even up to room temperatures, they may be useful in quantum computing application.
A method is proposed for the quantum-mechanical determination of the eigenstates and eigenvalues of a particle (e.g. an electron) in a potential of general shape. For such systems the method allows one to calculate the exact solutions of the stationary Schrödinger equation. For the application of this method any well-known reference system is needed. A transition from the stationary reference system to the stationary system under investigation is performed by means of the time-dependent Schrödinger equation. The results are compared with various standard methods; alternative numerical methods will be discussed critically.
We show how a non-local quantum CNOT with (N -1)-target operation can be implemented with unit fidelity and unit probability by using a N -qubit maximally entangled GHZ state as quantum channel. We also put forward two schemes for probabilistic implementing the operation with unit fidelity by employing a partially entangled pure GHZ state as quantum channel. The overall physical resources required for accomplishing these schemes are different, and the successful implementation probabilities are also different. We also point out the non-local CNOT with (N -1)-target operation can be used as a purification protocol to concentrate entanglement from an ensemble of partially entangled GHZ states into a subensemble of maximally entangled ones.
We propose a possible way, theoretically, to manipulate a Schrödinger cat state of two degenerate ferromagnetic [FM] ground states of the transverse Ising model [TIM] using macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) effect. The MQT process is calculated based on a high-order degenerate perturbative method and can be understood in the language of individual virtual fermions hopping along the spin chain. We present an analytical description of the tunneling process, and discuss experimental feasibility for generating the Cat state in the linear ion trap.
A recursive approach to determine the Hilbert-Schmidt measure of pairwise quantum discord in a special class of symmetric states of k qubits is presented. We especially focus on the reduced states of k qubits obtained from a balanced superposition of symmetric n-qubit states (multiqubit Schrödinger cat states) by tracing out nk particles (k = 2, 3, . . . , n-1). Two pairing schemes are considered. In the first one, the geometric discord measuring the correlation between one qubit and the parity grouping (k -1) qubits is explicitly derived. This uses recursive relations between the Fano-Bloch correlation matrices associated with subsystems comprising k, k -1, . . . and two particles. A detailed analysis is given for two-, three-and four-qubit systems. In the second scheme, the subsystem comprising the (k -1) qubits is mapped into a system of two logical qubits. We show that these two bipartition schemes are equivalents in evaluating the pairwise correlation in multiqubits systems. The explicit expressions of classical states presenting zero discord are derived.
In this paper, we propose and analyze an efficient high-dimensional quantum state transfer (QST) scheme through an XXZ-Heisenberg spin chain in an inhomogeneous magnetic field. By the use of a combination of coherent quantum coupling and free spin wave approximation, pure unitary evolution results in a perfect high-dimensional swap operation between two remote quantum registers mediated by a uniform quantum data bus and the feasibility is confirmed by numerical simulations. Also, we observe that either the strong z-directional coupling or high quantum spin number can partly suppress the thermal excitations and protect quantum information from the thermal noises when the quantum data bus is in the thermal equilibrium state.
Multipartite entanglement and the maximum violation of Bell inequalities are studied in finite clusters of spins in an extended J 1 -J 2 Heisenberg model at zero temperature. The ensuing highly frustrated states will unveil a rich structure for different values of the corresponding spin-spin interaction strengths. The interplay between nearest-neighbors, next-nearest neighbors and further couplings will be explored using multipartite correlations. The model is relevant to certain quantum annealing computation architectures where an all-to-all connectivity is considered.
We investigate the behavior of quantum correlations in some specific Werner-like twoqubit states, where the qubit interacts individually with non-Markovian environment. We employ the local quantum uncertainty and trace distance discord to quantify the amount of quantum correlations between the evolved qubits and the corresponding analytical expressions are derived. For specific values of the parameters characterizing the whole system, the dynamics of quantum correlations exhibits collapse and revival phenomena. The influence of the non-Markovianity is also investigated to analyze the monotonic decay of quantum correlations in the limiting case of Markovian regime. Furthermore, we show that trace distance discord captures quantum correlations that cannot be revealed by local quantum uncertainty in some particular situations.
Entanglement is one of the most intriguing features of quantum theory and a main resource in quantum information science. Ground states of quantum many-body systems with local interactions typically obey an "area law" which means that the entanglement entropy is proportional to the boundary length. It is exceptional when the system is gapless, and the area law had been believed to be violated by at most a logarithm over two decades. Recent discovery of Motzkin and Fredkin spin chain models is striking, since these models provide significant violation of the entanglement beyond the belief, growing as a square root of the volume in spite of local interactions. In this paper, we first analytically compute the Rényi entropy of the Motzkin and Fredkin models by careful treatment of asymptotic analysis. The Rényi entropy is an important quantity, since the whole spectrum of an entangled subsystem is reconstructed once the Rényi entropy is known as a function of its parameter. We find nonanalytic behavior of the Rényi entropy with respect to the parameter, which is a novel phase transition never seen in any other spin chain studied so far. Interestingly, similar behavior is seen in the Rényi entropy of Rokhsar-Kivelson states in two dimensions.
Utilization of a quantum system whose time-development is described by the nonlinear Schrödinger equation in the transformation of qubits would make it possible to construct quantum algorithms which would be useful in a large class of problems. An example of such a system for implementing the logical NOR operation is demonstrated.
By exploiting the fermionic qubit parity measurement, we present a scheme to realize quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement of Bell states and generate n-party GHZ state in quantum dot. Compared with the original protocol, the required electron transfer before and after parity measurement can be nonadiabatic, which may speed up the operation speed and make the omitting of spin-orbit interaction more reasonable. This may help us to construct CNOT gate without highly precise control of coupling as the way of D. Gottesman and I. L. Chuang.
We extend the approach in Ref. 5 [Y
In this paper, we numerically study the non-Abelian statistics of the zero-energy Majorana fermions at the end of Majorana chain and show its application to quantum computing by mapping it to a spin model with special symmetry. In particular, by using transverse-field Ising model with Z2 symmetry, we verify the nontrivial non-Abelian statistics of Majorana fermions. Numerical evidence and comparison in both Majorana representation and spin representation are presented. The degenerate ground states of a symmetry protected spin chain therefore provide a promising platform for topological quantum computation.
The power of quantum computing may allow for solving the problems which are not practically feasible on classical computers and suggest a considerable speed up to the best known classical approaches. In this paper, we present the contemporary quantum behaved approach which is based on Schrödinger equation and Monte Carlo method. The three basic steps of proposed technique are also mathematically modeled and discussed for effective movement of particles. The performance of the proposed approach is tested for solving the dynamic nonlinear problem. Experimental results reveal the supremacy of proposed approach for solving the nonlinear problem as compared to other approaches.
We study the first and second cohomology groups of the * -algebras of the universal unitary and orthogonal quantum groups U + F and O + F . This provides valuable information for constructing and classifying Lévy processes on these quantum groups, as pointed out by Schürmann. In the case when all eigenvalues of F * F are distinct, we show that these * -algebras have the properties (GC), (NC) and (LK) introduced by Schürmann and studied recently by Franz, Gerhold and Thom. In the degenerate case F = I d , we show that they do not have any of these properties. We also compute the second cohomology group of U + d with trivial coefficients -H 2 (U + d , C ) ∼ = C d 2 -1 -and construct an
We discuss a Bell inequality based on correlation function for three qubits.
It is fundamental to view unitary braiding operators describing topological entanglements as universal quantum gates for quantum computation. This paper derives a unitary solution of the quantum Yang-Baxter equation via Yang-Baxterization and constructs the Hamiltonian responsible for the time-evolution of the unitary braiding operator.
Some new Hamiltonians are constructed via the unitary Yang-Baxter matrices Ři,i+1 (θ, ϕ) acting on a Hamiltonian H 0 which describes nearest spin-spin interaction.
The participant attack is the most serious threat for quantum secret-sharing protocols. However, it is only during the transmission of quantum information carriers that attention is paid to this kind of attack in the existing quantum secret-sharing protocols. The security considerations of the secret reconstruction phase of quantum secret-sharing protocols against this kind of attack are neglected. We demonstrate our viewpoint by taking the scheme of Hillery, Buzěk, and Berthiaume (HBB) [Phys. Rev. A 59 (1999) 18-29] as an example. By telling a lie in the reconstruction phase, a dishonest participant can easily attain the entire secret key instead of eavesdropping during the transmission awkwardly, whereas the honest one cannot judge whether the dishonest one tells the truth and the obtained secret random key is identical to what the secret distributor owns because of lack of verification mechanism in the HBB protocol. It is not difficult to find that almost all the quantum secret-sharing protocols have such disadvantages. Our viewpoint presented may be useful for the design of other similar protocols.
The iteration of the operators employed in quantum amplitude ampli¯cation with generalized phases is analyzed by using elementary properties (geometric and algebraic) of the M€ obius transformations (fractional linear transformations). It is shown that, for a given quantum algorithm without measurement, which produces a good state with probability a of success, if the phase angles ' and which mark the good and initial states respectively satisfy ' ¼ with a small enough, then, for a number n of iterations with n 2 Âð1= ffiffiffi a p Þ we get an error probability that is at most Oða 2 Þ.
The use of the B n group operators is developed for implementing entangling processes for large n-qubits systems (n > 2). By operating with the B n group operators on the computational basis of states, entangled states are obtained with properties analogous to those of the 2-qubits Bell states. Tracing any qubit from the 3-qubits B n entangled states, we get mixed states which are separable with zero concurrence, and correspondingly with only classical correlations. These properties are generalized to larger B n entangled states (n > 3). The properties of the B n entangled states are analyzed by the use of Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) decompositions.
To celebrate the 10th anniversary of the establishment of International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI) in 2013, we invited a cross-section of researchers to submit their recent results on the computer science aspects of quantum information processing. All submissions went through a rigorous peer review process, and ¯ve were accepted to this special issue. These papers cover various aspects of quantum cryptography and complexity.
We present a scheme to implement a quantum ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi ffi swap p gate for two-atom trapped in distant cavities connected via an optical ¯ber. In the whole process, the atomic system, the cavity modes and the ¯ber are not excited ensuring that the operation is insensitive to atomic spontaneous emission, cavity decay and the ¯ber loss. This scheme is signi¯cant for distributed and scalable quantum computation.
We have studied several ground states and their entanglement structure for a two-dimensional 5-site frustrated J 1 -J 2 system in the presence and absence of an external magnetic ¯eld. We have used concurrence as a measure of bipartite entanglement and the Meyer-Wallach measure and its generalizations as the measures of multipartite entanglement. They provide a total of eight measures which lead to 30 entanglement quantities for each possible ground state. Computing these 30 quantities for several ground states, we have provided a detailed exposition of the entanglement distribution in each state. We have also categorized them into separable states, not showing entanglement for any bipartition; globally-entangled states, showing entanglement for all the bipartitions, and the states in between. It turns out that by adjusting the external magnetic ¯eld, conditioned on the values of the interaction parameters, one may generate speci¯c ground states belonging to a speci¯c class, appropriate for speci¯c tasks in quantum information theory.
We specify the local quasi hidden variable (LqHV) model reproducing the probabilistic description of all N -partite joint von Neumann measurements on an N -qudit state. Via this local probability model, we derive a new upper bound on the maximal violation by an N -qudit state of Bell inequalities of any type (either on correlation functions or on joint probabilities) for S observables per site. This new upper bound not only improves for all N; S and d the corresponding results available for general Bell inequalities in the literature but also, for the N -qubit case with two observables per site, reduces exactly to the attainable upper bound known for quantum violations of correlation 2 Â Á Á Á Â 2 setting Bell inequalities in a dichotomic case.
Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) decompositions and Frobenius norms are used to analyze biseparability of 3-qubit systems, with particular emphasis on density matrices with maximally disordered subsystems (MDS) and on the W state mixed with white noise. The biseparable form of a MDS density matrix is obtained by using the Bell states of a 2-qubit subsystem, multiplied by density matrices of the third qubit, which include the relevant HS parameters. Using our methods, a su±cient condition and explicit biseparability of the W state mixed with white noise are given. They are compared with the su±cient condition for explicit full separability given in a previous work.
A special emphasis is devoted to the concept of local quantum uncertainty as an indicator of quantum correlations. We study quantum discord for a class of two-qubit states parametrized by two parameters. Quantum discord based on local quantum uncertainty, von Neumann entropy and trace distance (Schatten 1-norm) are explicitly derived and compared. The behavior of quantum correlations, quanti¯ed via local quantum uncertainty, under decoherence e®ects is investigated. We show that the discordlike local quantum uncertainty exhibits the possibility of freezing behavior during its evolution.
In this paper, a three-party controlled quantum secure direct communication and authentication (QSDCA) protocol is proposed by using four particle cluster states via a quantum one-time pad and local unitary operations. In the present scheme, only under the permission of the controller, the sender and the receiver can implement secure direct communication successfully. But under any circumstances, Charlie cannot obtain the secret message. Eavesdropping detection and identity authentication are achieved with the help of the previously shared reusable base identity strings of users. This protocol is unconditionally secure in both ideal and practical noisy cases. In one transmission, a qubit of each four particle cluster state is used as controller's permission and the same qubit with another qubit are used to recover two classical bits of information. In the proposed scheme, the e±ciency is improved compared with the previous works.
Text in natural scene images are often faced with lowresolution problem, which brings significant difficulties to many text-related tasks such as text detection and recognition. In this paper, we propose a novel text-attentional Conditional Generative Adversarial Network (cGAN) model for text image super-resolution (SR). The model enhances the original cGAN by introducing effective channel and spatial attention mechanisms based on the proposed Residual Dense Channel Attention Block and text/non-text segmentation information, which focus the model on the text regions instead of the background of the image to learn more effective representations of text and achieve better text super-resolution result. The proposed model achieves state-of-the-art performances on public text image super-resolution dataset.
The effects of free-slip boundary on shear turbulence are studied numerically using the direct numerical simulation (DNS) approach. The flow considered in this study is a stress-driven turbulent Couette flow between two flat boundaries. The top boundary has an imposed shear stress in the streamwise direction and a free-slip condition for the streamwise velocity fluctuation and the spanwise velocity, and the bottom boundary satisfies the no-slip condition. This type of flow has a mean flow pattern similar to the turbulent plane Couette flow between a stationary flat plate and a moving flat plate but exhibits considerable differences in turbulence statistics due to the effects of the free-slip boundary. Statistical analysis based on the DNS data and theoretical derivation based on Taylor series expansion show that near the free-slip surface the turbulence variances of the three velocity components vary as quadratic functions of the vertical distance from the boundary while the Reynolds shear stress exhibits a linear behavior, which are very different from the counterparts near the no-slip boundary. The free-slip surface condition also leads to zero horizontal vorticities at the surface but allows nonzero vertical vorticity in the meantime, leading to considerable differences in the near-boundary statistics of vorticities and coherent vortex structures. Comparison of three DNS runs with different grid resolutions shows that smoothly resolving the more energetic turbulent flow structures near the free-slip boundary requires a higher horizontal grid resolution than that used for resolving the structures near the no-slip boundary.
We observed the spectrum of quantum levels on series-connected double single-electron transistors (DSETs). The DSETs, composed of double quantum dots are formed with lateral confinements on the silicon-on-insulator substrate. To characterize DSETs, the electrical measurements were carried out at the base temperature of 22 mK by using a dilution refrigerator. The estimated energy spacing from the measurement characteristics agreed with the values from the geometrically defined quantum dots size. These results exhibit the significant potential of DSETs as a readout device for two charge quantum bits (qubits).
The fabrication of ultrasmall high-quality intrinsic Josephson junctions (IJJs) using a cuprate superconductor is critical for the realization of a qubit. We investigated the mechanism of damage induced by a Ga þ beam in a Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8þ IJJ during focused ion beam (FIB) processing. On the basis of the results, we developed a process that allowed the successful fabrication of an ultrasmall and high-quality IJJ. The damage induced by the FIB is reduced by restricting the direction of the Ga þ beam so that the junction area is not directly irradiated by the ion beam. The fabricated ultrasmall IJJ device has a junction area of 0.3 m 2 and shows excellent current-voltage characteristics.
Simplified versions of the second-order Born and Faddeev-Watson approximations are applied to the charge transfer process. The theories are compared with experimental measurements of the differential cross sections for the capture of electrons from helium by protons with energies of 2.82, 5.42 and 7.40 MeV. Our results are consistent with previous work on the second-order Faddeev-Watson approximation by Alton and on the free-particle second Born by McCuire er al confirming that the former approximation gives a better description of the Thomas peak than does the latter.
In a hydrodynamic model, we have analysed the direct photon data obtained by the WA98 collaboration in 158 A GeV Pb + Pb collisions. The transverse expansion of the system has been taken into account. Two scenarios have been considered: (i) the formation of quark-gluon plasma and (ii) the formation of hot hadronic gas. Both scenarios describe the data equally well. However, the hadronic gas scenario requires a very high initial temperature (∼300 MeV) and it is difficult to conceive of the existence of hadron gas at that high temperature. If, initially, the hadronic fluid possesses small radial velocity (0.2-0.3 c), the data are well explained in the hadronic gas scenario, with reasonable initial temperatures.
Projector equivalences used in the definition of the K-theory of operator algebras are shown to lead to generalizations of the solution generating technique for solitons in NC field theories, which has recently been used in the construction of branes from other branes in B-field backgrounds and in the construction of fluxon solutions of gauge theories. The generalizations involve families of static solutions as well as solutions which depend on euclidean time and interpolate between different configurations. We investigate the physics of these generalizations in the brane-construction as well as the fluxon context. These results can be interpreted in the light of recent discussions on the topology of the configuration space of string fields.
Two instruments are described which measure the speeds and accelerations of moving bodies. The accelerometer is a null instrument in which the force exerted by a weight freely supported in the moving body is balanced by a calibrated compression spring. The final result is given in units of g. The principle of the speedometer, of which the theory is given, is based on the fact that a helical spring, moving longitudinally with a mass attached to its leading end, will extend if the other end is suddenly stopped. The extension of the spring is directly proportional to the speed of the moving body immediately before it is brought to rest and is not appreciably affected by variations in Some of the characteristics of the moving body. The instrument gives the speed directly in feet per second,
Dynamic nuclear polarization (DNP) of 29 Si nuclear spins induced by saturation of electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) transitions of lithiumrelated centers in float zone (FZ) grown silicon is reported. Both isolated Li and Li-O complex centers showed strong EPR absorption lines in the temperature range 3.4 -10 K and led to very efficient orientation of 29 Si nuclear spins. The temperature dependence and time constant of 29 Si DNP are investigated in detail. The 29 Si DNP of 0.72% was achieved at 3.4 K by excitation of the Li-O forbidden EPR transition under illumination, corresponding to a $352 fold increase with respect to the thermal equilibrium polarization.
We excited a transition between ground-state Zeeman sublevels in 40 Ca þ using a radio frequency (RF) magnetic field. We discuss methods for generating an RF magnetic field of sufficiently large amplitude and for estimating the amplitude of the RF field to observe Rabi oscillations with high Rabi frequencies. A maximum Rabi frequency of 250 kHz was obtained. We also demonstrate a simple quantum gate operation on a combined system using the S 1=2 -D 5=2 transition in 40 Ca þ .
The switching dynamics of current-biased Bi 2 Sr 2 CaCu 2 O 8þ intrinsic Josephson junctions (IJJs) was studied to clarify the effects of d-wave superconductivity and the stack structure on switching properties. High-quality IJJs were fabricated, and then the temperature dependence of the switching probability distribution was measured for the first and second switchings. Although the standard deviation of the distribution detected for both switchings showed similar saturation characteristics with decreasing temperature, the temperature at saturation was about thirteenfold higher for the second switching than for the first switching. The properties of the first switching can be explained in terms of a conventional underdamped JJ, that is, macroscopic quantum tunneling below the crossover temperature, and thermal activation with a quality factor of 70 AE 20 above the crossover temperature. In contrast, the relatively higher effective temperature for the second switching evaluated from the switching probability distribution suggests a predominant thermal activation process under the influence of the self-heating effect even at sufficiently low temperatures.
It is shown that Majorana fermions trapped in three vortices in a p-wave superfluid implement a qubit for universal quantum computing. Several similar ideas have already been proposed: Ivanov [Phys. Rev.  Lett. 86 (2001) 268] and Zhang et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 99 (2007) 220502] have proposed schemes in which a qubit is implemented with two and four Majorana fermions, respectively, where a qubit operation is performed by exchanging the positions of Majorana fermions. The set of gates thus obtained is a discrete subset of the relevant unitary group. We propose, in this paper, a new scheme, where three Majorana fermions form a qubit. We show that continuous 1-qubit gate operations are possible by exchanging the positions of Majorana fermions complemented with dynamical phase change. Two-qubit gates are realized through the use of the coupling between Majorana fermions belonging to different qubits.
We report the experimental observation and theoretical analysis of a novel beam-steering effect in periodic waveguide arrays that arises from the interplay between discrete diffraction, Kerr nonlinearity and any mechanism that effectively weakens the nonlinear part of the beam. In this regime the propagation direction shows increased sensitivity to the input angle and for a certain angular range around normal incidence a nonlinear beam may be guided to a direction opposite to that initially inserted. For continuous wave beams the role of this mechanism is played by absorption of any kind, such as three photon absorption, two photon absorption or even linear absorption. For pulsed beams we show that the same dynamics can arise due to strong normal temporal dispersion, while absorption is not necessary and can be a further enhancing
The electronic structure of d electrons in the antiferromagnetic intermetallic compound YMn, with the cubic Laves phase structure is calculated in the tight-binding approximation. In the Hartree-Fock approximation, the density of states curve and the sublattice moment of Mn atoms are calculated numerically at 0 K. It is shown that the magnitude of the sublattice Mn moment decreases with decreasing lattice constant. Furthermore, the parallel and perpendicular spin susceptibilities are calculated numerically at 0 K and it is shown that the perpendicular spin susceptibility is much larger than the parallel one. A discussion on the magnetic structure of GdMnl is given.
The ionisation of deep impurity centres in germanium has been observed with radiation in the terahertz range where the photon energy is much less than the binding energy of the impurities. It is shown that for not too high radiation intensities the ionisation is caused by the Poole-Frenkel effect. As in the well-known case of d.c. fields, the electric field of the highfrequency radiation lowers the Coulomb potential barrier and enhances the thermal emission of carriers.
In a recent Paper in T e r m t r i a l Magiiefisw, Dr. I,. A. Bauer draws the conclusion that both the range of the diurnal inequality of atiiiospheric electricity potential gradient and the mean value of the element for the year increase and diminish with sunspot fre-. quency. This conclusion was based on observational data from the Ebro Observatory,, Tortosa, Spain, between 1910 and 1920.
The European Fusion File (EFF) Project is a collaborative project with work funded by the European Fusion Development Agreement (EFDA). The emphasis is on the pooling of resources and removal of duplication of effort, leading to the efficient development of two types of nuclear data libraries for use in fusion power plant design and operation studies. The two branches consist of, on the one hand, a general purpose file for modelling and design capabilities and, second, an activation file for the calculation and simulation of dose rates and energy release during operation of a future power plant. Efforts are
Independently controlling the number density and diameter of Fe nanoparticles (FeNPs) used as a catalyst for vertically aligned carbon nanotube (VA-CNT) growth is difficult by conventional methods. In this study, mixed solutions of FeNPs and palmitic acid (C 16 ) used as filler molecules were prepared to prevent the thermal aggregation of FeNPs and control the number density of VA-CNTs. FeNPs mixed with C 16 monolayer films were prepared on the water surface and deposited on SiO 2 /Si substrates by the Langmuir-Blodgett (LB) technique. VA-CNTs were synthesized by a thermal chemical vapor deposition method using acetylene gas. Furthermore, we studied the optimum hydrogen reduction temperature and time of FeNPs used as a catalyst to encourage VA-CNT growth. By controlling the ratio of FeNP catalyst to C 16 as a filler molecule in the LB film and optimizing hydrogen reduction condition, we were able to control the number density and diameter of FeNPs independently.
A steam plasma jet (SPJ) by using both water and 1,4-dioxane aqueous solution (DAS) as working medium was injected into contaminated water to decompose 1,4-dioxane. The optical emission spectroscopy analysis showed that the formation of the excited species CH * and C * 2 depended on the concentration of 1,4-dioxane. The influences of SPJ gas temperatures for different working mediums were discussed. The 1,4-dioxane decomposition was enhanced when DAS was used as working medium and SPJ was injected into DAS. Synthesis gas (a mixture of H2 and CO) and CO2 were the main products in gaseous effluents.
In this paper we study systems of first-order partial differential equations on superspace; by means of a Cauchy-Kowalewsky-like expansion we are able to solve a large class of differential systems.
This paper provides explicit techniques to compute the exponentials of a variety of anti-Hermitian matrices in dimension 4. Many of these formulae can be written down directly from the entries of the matrix. Whenever any spectral calculations are required, these can be done in closed form. In many instances only 2 × 2 spectral calculations are required. These formulae cover a wide variety of applications. Conditions on the matrix which render it to admit one of three minimal polynomials are also given. Matrices with these minimal polynomials admit simple and tractable representations for their exponentials. One of these is the Euler-Rodrigues formula. The key technique is the relation between real 4 × 4 matrices and the quaternions.
We realize quantum gates for path qubits with a high-speed, polarization-independent and tunable beam splitter. Two electro-optical modulators act in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer as high-speed phase shifters and rapidly tune its splitting ratio. We test its performance with heralded single photons, observing a polarization-independent interference contrast above 95%. The switching time is about 5.6 ns, and a maximal repetition rate is 2.5 MHz. We demonstrate tunable feed-forward operations of a single-qubit gate of path-encoded qubits and a two-qubit gate via measurement-induced interaction between two photons.
Hybrid quantum information protocols are based on local qubits, such as trapped atoms, NV centers, and quantum dots, coupled to photons. The coupling is achieved through optical cavities. Here we demonstrate far-field optimized H1 photonic crystal membrane cavities combined with an additional back reflection mirror below the membrane that meet the optical requirements for implementing hybrid quantum information protocols. Using numerical optimization we find that 80% of the light can be radiated within an objective numerical aperture of 0.8, and the coupling to a single-mode fiber can be as high as 92%. We experimentally prove the unique external mode matching properties by resonant reflection spectroscopy with a cavity mode visibility above 50%.
Recent breakthroughs in solid-state photonic quantum technologies enable the generation and detection of single photons with near-unity efficiency as required for a range of photonic quantum technologies. The lack of methods to simultaneously generate and control photons within the same chip, however, is a main obstacle to achieving efficient multi-qubit gates and to harness the advantages of chip-scale quantum photonics. Here we propose and demonstrate an integrated voltage-controlled phase shifter based on the electro-optic effect in suspended photonic waveguides with embedded quantum emitters. The phase control allows the building of a compact Mach-Zehnder interferometer with two orthogonal arms, taking advantage of the anisotropic electro-optic response in gallium arsenide. Photons emitted by single self-assembled quantum dots can be actively routed into the two outputs of the interferometer. These results, together with the observed sub-microsecond response time, constitute a significant step towards chip-scale single-photon-source de-multiplexing, fiber-loop boson sampling, and linear optical quantum computing.
Rydberg blockaded gate is a fundamental ingredient for scalable quantum computation with neutral Rydberg atoms. However the fidelity of such a gate is intrinsically limited by a blockade error coming from a Rydberg level shift that forbids its extensive use. Based on a dark-state adiabatic passage, we develop a novel protocol for realizing a two-atom blockade-error-free quantum gate in a hybrid system with simultaneous van der Waals (vdWsI) and resonant dipole-dipole interactions (DDI). The basic idea relies on converting the roles of two interactions, which is, the DDI serves as one time-dependent tunable pulse and the vdWsI acts as a negligible middle level shift as long as the adiabatic condition is preserved. We adopt an optimized super-Gaussian optical pulse with kπ (k ≫ 1) area accompanied by a smooth tuning for the DDI, composing a circular stimulated Raman adiabatic passage, which can robustly ensure a faster operation time ∼ 80ns as well as a highly-efficient gate fidelity ∼ 0.9996. This theoretical protocol offers a flexible treatment for hybrid interactions in complex Rydberg systems, enabling on-demand design of new types of effective Rydberg quantum gate devices.
With the fast development of single photon-based technologies such as quantum computing and quantum cryptography, conventional avalanche photodiodes as single photon detectors are not the optimum tools anymore. They are currently replaced by Superconducting Nanowire Single Photon Detectors (SNSPDs) based on the superconducting to normal conducting phase transition. The current challenge with SNSPDs lies in overcoming the trade-off between detection efficiency and recovery time. While a large active area will lead to high detection efficiency, the associated high kinetic inductance causes a long recovery time. Plasmonic effects can play an important role in the absorption enhancement of SNSPDs. Nanostructuring with a suitable geometry can provide a high-absorption cross-section at the intrinsic nanowire surface plasmon resonance, which can be significantly larger than their geometric cross-section. We present a photodetector based on the intrinsic localized surface plasmon resonance of a niobium nanowire, which is one of the common superconductors with low kinetic inductance. Additionally, we are increasing the absorption of our nanostructures even further using a plasmonic perfect absorber scheme. We fabricated a plasmonic perfect absorber superconducting photodetector, investigated its response to external light at resonance, and proved its plasmonic behavior as evidenced by its polarization dependence.
The development of large-scale optical quantum information processing circuits ground on the stability and reconfigurability enabled by integrated photonics. We demonstrate a reconfigurable 8×8 integrated linear optical network based on silicon nitride waveguides for quantum information processing. Our processor implements a novel optical architecture enabling any arbitrary linear transformation and constitutes the largest programmable circuit reported so far on this platform. We validate a variety of photonic quantum information processing primitives, in the form of Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, bosonic coalescence/anti-coalescence and high-dimensional single-photon quantum gates. We achieve fidelities that clearly demonstrate the promising future for large-scale photonic quantum information processing using low-loss silicon nitride.
The concept of parity-time (PT) symmetry originates from the framework of quantum mechanics, where if the Hamiltonian operator satisfies the commutation relation with the parity and time operators, it shows real energy spectrum. Recently, PT symmetry was introduced into various systems, such as optics, electronic circuits, acoustics, and other classical fields to further study the dynamical behaviors of the Hamiltonian and the energies. To focus on the dynamical evolution of the quantum state, here we experimentally studied the dynamical evolution of a two-level quantum system under the PT symmetric Hamiltonian using single-photon system. By enlarging the system using ancillary qubit and encoding the subsystem under the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian with post-selection, the evolution of the state can be characterized with a high fidelity. Owing to the effectively operation of the dilation method, our work provides a route for further exploiting the exotic properties of PT symmetric Hamiltonian for quantum simulation and quantum information processing.
We present a compact optical design for a scalable trapped ion quantum processor employing a single high numerical aperture lens for the excitation of ions and collection of photons, both of which are essential for remote entanglement generation. We verified the design by performing a quantum interference experiment between two photons generated by two sets of the proposed design and observed a 82(3) % suppression of coincidence within 8.13 ns time window when the two photons became indistinguishable. This design can be extended for the simultaneous generation of multiple pairs of entangled qubits with existing fiber-array devices.
We propose and optimize a vertically-loaded diamond microdisk resonator (VLD-MoRt) coupled to a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond for efficient collection of zerophonon-line emission into low numerical aperture (NA) free-space modes. The VLDMoRt achieves a Purcell enhancement of 172 with 39% of the emitted light collected within a NA of 0.6, leading to a total external spin-photon collection efficiency of 0.33. As the design is compatible with established nanofabrication techniques and couples to low-NA modes accessible by cryogenic free-space optical systems, it is a promising platform for efficient spin-photon interfaces based on diamond quantum emitters.
Integrated optical unitary converters (OUCs) are vital devices for various emerging applications such as mode-multiplexed optical communication, optical neural networks, and quantum computing. In order to realize large-scale OUCs in a limited footprint, the number of elements, as well as the size of each element, is important. In this work, we present a novel type of OUC using half-integer multimode interferometers (MMIs) based on the multi-plane light conversion (MPLC) concept. A half-integer MMI enables unitary coupling among the multiple input and output ports, while requiring only half the length of a conventional uniform MMI. Although the splitting ratio is not uniform across the ports, we show both numerically and experimentally that arbitrary unitary operation can still be achieved with comparable performance. We fabricate 4×4 OUC with half-integer MMIs on the monolithic InP platform and experimentally demonstrate reconfigurable 4-mode sorting and switching with a significantly reduced footprint compared with the conventional OUCs using uniform MMIs.
If the electromagnetic waves are scattered by the periodic structure of media with different refractive indexes, a band gap in the transmitted spectrum can be generated. This is the photonic crystal whose band gap is usually uncontrollable as its structure parameters are fixed after the fabrication. Alternatively, based on the quantum theory in real space for single photons transporting along a one-dimensional waveguide embed by a series of two-level atoms, we propose here a quantum mechanical configuration to implement the photonic crystal with adjustable band gap. It is shown that if the scattering two-level atoms are arranged as a periodic array, the desirable band gap in the photonic transmission spectrum can be formed. This is the atomic-type photonic crystal, in which the center frequency of the gap can be controlled by adjusting the eigenfrequencies of the atoms. The possible physical implementations of our proposal with the voltage-biased superconducting qubits for the centimeter waves and the voltage-biased electrons on liquid helium for the millimeter waves are also discussed.
Continuous-wave (CW) squeezed light is used in the generation of various optical quantum states, and thus is a fundamental resource of fault-tolerant universal quantum computation using optical continuous variables. To realize a practical quantum computer, a waveguide optical parametric amplifier (OPA) is an attractive CW squeezed light source in terms of its THz-order bandwidth and suitability for modularization. The usages of a waveguide OPA in quantum applications thus far, however, are limited due to the difficulty of the generation of the squeezed light with a high purity. In this paper, we report the first observation of Wigner negativity of the states generated by a heralding method using a waveguide OPA. We generate Schrödinger cat states at the wavelength of 1545 nm with Wigner negativity using a quasi-single-mode ZnO-doped periodically poled LiNbO 3 waveguide module we developed. Wigner negativity is regarded as an important indicator of the usefulness of the quantum states as it is essential in the fault-tolerant universal quantum computation. Our result shows that our waveguide OPA can be used in wide range of quantum applications leading to a THz-clock optical quantum computer.
We propose a scheme consisting of coupled nanomechanical cantilever resonators and superconducting flux qubits to engineer a parity-time-(PT -) symmetric phononic system formed by active and passive modes. The effective gain (loss) of the phonon mode is achieved by the longitudinal coupling of the resonator and the fast dissipative superconducting qubit with a blue-sideband driving (red-sideband driving). A PT -symmetric to broken-PT -symmetric phase transition can be observed in both balanced gain-to-loss and unbalanced gain-to-loss cases. Applying a resonant weak probe field to the dissipative resonator, we find that (i) for balanced gain and loss, the acoustic signal absorption to amplification can be tuned by changing the coupling strength between resonators; (ii) for unbalanced gain and loss, both acoustically induced transparency and anomalous dispersion can be observed around ∆ = 0, where the maximum group delay is also located at this point. Our work provides an experimentally feasible scheme to design PT -symmetric phononic systems and a powerful platform for controllable acoustic signal transmission in a hybrid quantum system.
Many modern applications, including quantum computing and quantum sensing, use substrate-film interfaces. Particularly, thin films of chromium or titanium and their oxides are commonly used to bind various structures, such as resonators, masks, or microwave antennas, to a diamond surface. Due to different thermal expansions of involved materials, such films and structures could produce significant stresses, which need to be measured or predicted. In this paper, we demonstrate imaging of stresses in the top layer of diamond with deposited structures of Cr 2 O 3 at temperatures 19°C and 37°C by using stress-sensitive optically detected magnetic resonances (ODMR) in NV centers. We also calculated stresses in the diamond-film interface by using finite-element analysis and correlated them to measured ODMR frequency shifts. As predicted by the simulation, the measured high-contrast frequency-shift patterns are only due to thermal stresses, whose spin-stress coupling constant along the NV axis is 21±1 MHz/GPa, that is in agreement with constants previously obtained from single NV centers in diamond cantilever. We demonstrate that NV microscopy is a convenient platform for optically detecting and quantifying spatial distributions of stresses in diamond-based photonic devices with micrometer precision and propose thin films as a means for local application of temperature-controlled stresses. Our results also show that thin-film structures produce significant stresses in diamond substrates, which should be accounted for in NV-based applications.
In order for optical cavities to enable strong light-matter interactions for quantum metrology, networking, and scalability in quantum computing systems, their mirrors must have minimal losses. However, high-finesse dielectric cavity mirrors can degrade in ultra-high vacuum (UHV), increasing the challenges of upgrading to cavity-coupled quantum systems. We observe the optical degradation of high-finesse dielectric optical cavity mirrors after high-temperature UHV bake in the form of a substantial increase in surface roughness. We provide an explanation of the degradation through atomic force microscopy (AFM), X-ray fluorescence (XRF), selective wet etching, and optical measurements. We find the degradation is explained by oxygen reduction in Ta 2 O 5 followed by growth of tantalum sub-oxide defects with height to width aspect ratios near ten. We discuss the dependence of mirror loss on surface roughness and finally give recommendations to avoid degradation to allow for quick adoption of cavity-coupled systems.
A computer-generated hologram compression and transmission system is designed. The system uses a hybrid neural network based on quantum compensation to compress and decompress computer-generated holograms and uses a quantization method and Huffman coding to encode the compressed holograms for transmission. The receiving side decodes and decompresses the data stream to obtain the recovered hologram, which can be used to reconstruct the original object information for 3D image display. Our numerical experiments show that quantum compensation can improve the quality of the reconstructed image. Furthermore, we introduce a quantum compensation factor to describe the strength of quantum compensation and verify experimentally that the quantum compensation module may drive the conventional neural network to converge in fewer training epochs.
We report on the high-efficiency storage and retrieval of weak coherent optical pulses and photonic qubits in a cavity-enhanced solid-state quantum memory. By using an atomic frequency comb (AFC) memory in a Pr 3+ :Y 2 SiO 5 crystal embedded in an impedance-matched cavity, we stored weak coherent pulses at the single photon level with up to 62% efficiency for a pre-determined storage time of 2 µs. We also confirmed that the impedance-matched cavity enhances the efficiency for longer storage times up to 70 µs. Harnessing the temporal multimodality of the AFC scheme, we stored weak coherent time-bin qubits with a record (51 ± 2%) efficiency and a fidelity over (94.8 ± 1.4)%, limited by imperfections in the qubits creation and measurement.
The strong interaction between light and matter is one of the current research hotspots in the field of nanophotonics, and provides a suitable platform for fundamental physics research such as on nanolasers, high-precision sensing in biology, quantum communication and quantum computing. In this study, double Rabi splitting was achieved in a composite structure monolayer MoS 2 and a single Ag@Au hollow nanocube (HNC) in room temperature mainly due to the two excitons in monolayer MoS 2 . Moreover, the tuning of the plasmon resonance peak was realized in the scattering spectrum by adjusting the thickness of the shell to ensure it matches the energy of the two excitons. Two distinct anticrossings are observed at both excitons resonances, and large double Rabi splittings (90 meV and 120 meV) are obtained successfully. The finite-difference time domain (FDTD) method was also used to simulate the scattering spectra of the nanostructures, and the simulation results were in good agreement with the experimental results. Additionally, the local electromagnetic field ability of the Ag@Au hollow HNC was proved to be stronger by calculating and comparing the mode volume of different nanoparticles. Our findings provides a good platform for the realization of strong multi-mode coupling and open up a new way to construct nanoscale photonic devices.
Parametrically driven nonlinear resonators represent a building block for realizing fault-tolerant quantum computation and are useful for critical quantum sensing. From a fundamental viewpoint, the most intriguing feature of such a system is perhaps the critical phenomena, which can occur without interaction with any other quantum system. The nonanalytic behaviors of its eigenspectrum have been substantially investigated, but those associated with the ground state wavefunction have largely remained unexplored. Using the quantum ground state geometric tensor as an indicator, we comprehensively establish a phase diagram involving the driving parameter ε and phase ϕ. The results reveal that with the increase in ε, the system undergoes a quantum phase transition from the normal to the symmetry-breaking phase, with the critical point unaffected by ϕ. Furthermore, the critical exponent and scaling dimension are obtained by an exact numerical method, which is consistent with previous works. Our numerical results show that the phase transition falls within the universality class of the quantum Rabi model. This work reveals that the quantum metric and Berry curvature display diverging behaviors across the quantum phase transition.
Polarization-entangled photon pair sources exhibiting nonlocal quantum correlations are crucial to developments of quantum computing, quantum communications, quantum cryptography, and quantum sensing technologies. On-chip polarization entanglement generation thus constitutes one enabling component for integrated quantum photonic circuits. Here, we present to our knowledge the first polarization-entangled photon pair sources in a silicon nitride platform for integrated quantum photonic circuits. We demonstrate the generation of a polarization-entangled state by adopting a configuration comprising dual microring resonators, with nearly degenerate transverse electric and transverse magnetic polarized cavity resonances for the two resonators coupled in series to a common bus waveguide. We measure two-photon interference and quantum state tomography to characterize the polarization entanglement of the generated state and to reconstruct the density matrix. Our experiments reveal a visibility of 96.4% ± 3.1% and of 86.7% ± 3.2% with the |H⟩ and |V⟩ bases, respectively (and a visibility of 89.4% ± 6.6% and 81.3% ± 7.3% with the |D⟩ and |A⟩ bases), and a fidelity of ∼75.7% from the tomographic reconstructed density matrix.
We conduct 3D mapping of cryogenic temperatures via a Raman-based distributed temperature sensor, employing standard telecom single-mode fibers and polarization-independent superconducting nanowire single photon detectors (SNSPDs). By coiling a test fiber around various stages of a liquid helium cooled cryostat, our device demonstrates a lower temperature sensing limit of (48 ± 2) K, below the nitrogen boiling point. This achievement is made possible by the low dark count rates of SNSPDs, as validated by theoretical simulations. Furthermore, we utilize our device to map cryogenic temperatures on the 350 cm 2 surface of a specially designed hollow cylindrical aluminum sample, accommodating approximately 2 m of standard single-mode optical fiber. During nitrogen cooling, we monitor the temporal evolution of the spatially dependent temperature gradient on the metallic sample with a temporal sampling down to one minute. Fiber-based distributed temperature sensing with centimetric spatial resolution can be effectively applied for 3D mapping at cryogenic temperatures of superconducting, quantum computing and aerospace instrumentation.
The manipulation of light propagation has garnered significant attention in discrete periodic photon structures. In this study, we investigate the impact of an adjustable phase on soliton behavior within a one-dimensional (1D) coupled cavity array. Each cavity is doped with two-level qubits, and the system can be effectively described by a Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model (JC-Hubbard model). By numerically exploring the photonic phase, we reveal that it introduces an additional degree of flexibility in controlling soliton propagation. This flexibility encompasses dispersion relations, propagation direction, transverse velocity, and stability conditions. We observe that soliton styles transition with changes in the tunneling phase. At a phase of 0, solitons form due to the delicate balance between spatial dispersion and system nonlinearity. When the phase increases to π/2, solitons vanish because spatial dispersion is significantly suppressed. The underlying theory explains this suppression, which arises from the opposite phase ±θ. Interestingly, standard temporal solitons emerge in the discrete periodic cavity array. Our investigation has broader applicability extending to various discrete structures, encompassing but not limited to waveguide arrays and optomechanical cavity arrays.
Ultra-precise readout of single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) spins holds promise for major advancements in quantum sensing, computing, and communication technologies. Here we present a rigorous open quantum theory capable of simultaneously capturing the optical, vibronic, and spin interactions of the negatively charged NV center, both in the presence and absence of plasmonic interaction. Our theory is verified against existing experiments in the literature. We predict orders of magnitude brightness and contrast enhancements in optically detected magnetic resonance (ODMR) and NV spin qubit readout arising from plasmonic interaction. Such optimal enhancements occur in carefully engineered parameter regions, necessitating rigorous modelling prior to experimentation. Our theory equips the community with a tool to identify such regions.
Polarization-entangled photons are indispensable to numerous quantum technologies and fundamental studies. In this paper, we propose and demonstrate what we believe to be a novel source that generates collinear polarization-entangled photons by simultaneously achieving two distinct types of phase-matching conditions (noncritically birefringent and quasi phase matching) in a periodically poled nonlinear crystal with a large poling period of 2 mm. The photon pairs are generated in a polarization-entangled state with a fidelity and concurrence of 0.998 and 0.935, respectively, and violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality by 84 standard deviations. The compact source does not require interferometer, delicate domain structures, or post selection, and is advantageous for scalable quantum computing and communication, where many replicas or chip-scale devices are needed.
Controlling the frequency of nonclassical light is essential for the implementation of quantum computation, communication, and the integration of various quantum systems. However, there is a practical absence of easy-to-integrate frequency-shift devices for solid-state single-photon sources. Here, we propose an integrated single-photon frequency shifter that utilizes acousto-optic modulation. The device is composed of two interdigital transducers (IDTs) for generating acoustic waves on a lithium niobate on insulator (LNOI) platform, along with a silicon waveguide that is periodically positioned at the nodes of the acoustic wave to enhance the interaction length. We achieved a low half-wavelength voltage length product V π × L of 0.18 V cm. With a driving frequency of 129.7 MHz and a driving voltage of 10 V, a frequency shift of up to ± 405 GHz is realized with near-unity conversion efficiency. Our findings illustrate the feasibility of deterministic on-chip quantum spectral control, which is pivotal for constructing hybrid quantum networks.
Advancements in quantum communication and sensing require improved optical transmission that ensures excellent state purity and reduced losses. While free-space optical communication is often preferred, its use becomes challenging over long distances due to beam divergence, atmospheric absorption, scattering, and turbulence, among other factors. In the case of polarization encoding, traditional silica-core optical fibers, though commonly used, struggle with maintaining state purity due to stress-induced birefringence. Hollow core fibers, and in particular nested antiresonant nodeless fibers (NANF), have recently been shown to possess unparalleled polarization purity with minimal birefringence in the telecom wavelength range using continuous-wave (CW) laser light. Here, we investigate a 1-km NANF designed for wavelengths up to the 2-µm waveband. Our results show a polarization extinction ratio between ∼-30 dB and ∼-70 dB across the 1520 to 1620 nm range in CW operation, peaking at ∼-60 dB at the 2-µm design wavelength. Our study also includes the pulsed regime, providing insights beyond previous CW studies, e.g., on the propagation of broadband quantum states of light in NANF at 2 µm, and corresponding extinction-ratio-limited quantum bit error rates (QBER) for prepare-measure and entanglement-based quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols. Our findings highlight the potential of these fibers in emerging applications such as QKD, pointing towards a new standard in optical quantum technologies.
Tantalum pentoxide (Ta 2 O 5 ) is widely recognized as a promising material platform for photonic integration. This is primarily attributed to its exceptional properties including large bandgap of 3.8 eV, broad transparency window ranging from 300 nm to 8000 nm, high nonlinear refractive index of ∼7.2 × 10 -19 m 2 /W, low optical loss, moderate refractive index of 2.05, low intrinsic material stress, compatibility with CMOS technology, and high solubility for rare-earth ions. However, dry etching of Ta 2 O 5 is challenging and typically results in sidewall roughness with substantial scattering losses. Here, we report on fabrication of a high-Q whispering gallery mode (WGM) microdisk with a diameter of 120 µm and a loaded Q factor of 1.92 × 10 6 by femtosecond laser photolithography assisted chemo-mechanical etching (PLACE) on amorphous Ta 2 O 5 film. Thanks to the suppression of sidewall scattering, the loaded Q factor is two orders of magnitude higher than the best reported value in dispersion engineered Ta 2 O 5 microresonators.
Compared to Nd: YAG lasers, Nd 3+ -doped fiber lasers offer superior beam quality, compactness, and heat dissipation, especially in generating single-frequency lasers, which holds great promise for applications in optical atomic clocks, quantum computing, and high-precision bio-photonic imaging. In this study, theoretical simulations of the local environment and experimental analyses on the luminescent characteristics of what we believe to be a novel Nd 3+doped fluoro-sulfo-phosphate (FSP) laser glass were performed to mitigate the concentration and hydroxyl quenching effects. Based on that, a highly Nd 3+ -doped (4 mol%) FSP fiber with a large emission cross-section (3.24 × 10 -20 cm 2 ), wide bandwidth (33.7 nm), long lifetime (354 µs), and high gain coefficient (4.24 dB/cm) was designed. Utilizing this fiber, a 1065 nm SFFL with a low pump threshold of 18 mW, a narrow linewidth of 6.5 kHz, and a 0.9 µm compact all-fiber laser were demonstrated, highlighting the potential of Nd 3+ -doped FSP fiber in high-performance fiber lasers.
Structured light, light tailored in its internal degrees of freedom, has become topical in numerous quantum and classical information processing protocols. In this work, we harness the high dimensional nature of structured light modulated in the transverse spatial degree of freedom to realize an adaptable scheme for learning unitary operations. Our approach borrows from concepts in variational quantum computing, where a search or optimization problem is mapped onto the task of finding a minimum ground state energy for a given energy/goal function. We achieve this by a pseudo-random walk procedure over the parameter space of the unitary operation, implemented with optical matrix-vector multiplication enacted on arrays of Gaussian modes by exploiting the partial Fourier transforming capabilities of a cylindrical lens in the transverse degree of freedom for the measurement. We outline the concept theoretically, and experimentally demonstrate that we are able to learn optical unitary matrices for dimensions d = 2, 4, 8, and 16 with average fidelities of >90%. Our work advances high dimensional information processing and can be adapted to both process and quantum state tomography of unknown states and channels.
Parametric nonlinear optical processes are instrumental in optical quantum technology for generating entangled light. However, the range of materials conventionally used for producing entangled photons is limited. Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have emerged as a novel class of optical materials with customizable nonlinear properties and proven chemical and optical stability. The large number of combinations of metal atoms and organic ligand from which bulk MOF crystals are known to form, facilitates the search of promising candidates for nonlinear optics. To accelerate the discovery of next-generation quantum light sources, we employ a multi-scale modeling approach to study phase-matching conditions for collinear degenerate type-II spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC) with MOF-based one dimensional waveguides. Using periodic-density-functional theory calculations to compute the nonlinear optical properties of selected zinc-based MOF crystals, we predict polarization-entangled pair generation rates of order 10 4 -10 7 s -1 mW -1 at 1064 nm for 10 mm crystals, improving the brightness of industry materials such as PPKTP and BBO in some cases. This work underscores the great potential of MOF single crystals as entangled light sources for applications in quantum communication and sensing.
We investigate photon correlations in the open anisotropic quantum Rabi model via quantum dressed master equation. Multiple antibunching-to-bunching transitions are generally exhibited at deep-strong qubit-photon coupling, which becomes vanishing in the standard open quantum Rabi model. The observed two-photon statistics can be well described analytically within a few lowest eigenstates at low temperatures. It is revealed that the additional photon antibunching effect mainly originates from the selection rule of the correlation-measurement-induced eigenstate transitions. Furthermore, we also unravel the phenomena that higher-order correlation function lifts up dramatically once passing the crossing point of excited states, which is attributed to the on-off switch of dominant cooperative transition with level crossing. We hope these results may fertilize the analysis of the nonclassical photon statistics in anisotropic coupled qubit-photon systems.
Spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) plays a pivotal role in the field of quantum optics, especially in generating quantum entangled states. This study delves into utilizing the scattering tensor of nonlinear waveguide arrays to characterize the SPDC process and optimize its efficiency. By computing the pseudo-inverse of the third-order scattering tensor describing the nonlinear arrays for biphoton generation, we determine the optimal pump profile and array conditions that best approximate a desired output biphoton distribution. Counterintuitively, due to the diffraction of the pump beam, we find that the optimal biphoton correlation does not occur at positions corresponding to the maximum pumping in real space within the coupled nonlinear arrays. Our finding demonstrates that the scattering tensor method combined with universal beam-splitter meshes provides a promising route toward reconfigurable integrated quantum light sources.
Gradient metasurfaces are extensively utilized for polarized beam splitting (BS) in classical and quantum optics. Specifically, their phase gradient allows the path and polarization of multiple output lights to be locked by corresponding inputs. However, the full potential of this unique path-polarization-locked property in multi-beam splitting has not been investigated. Here, we demonstrate that a single metasurface can function as sequentially linked beam splitters, enabling the parallelization of a series of BS processes, which provides a multi-beam interference capability. In the classical region, we demonstrate that parallel BS allows continuous modulation of output light intensity and polarization state through input polarization adjustment. While in the quantum realm, parallel BS introduces an additional path-polarization correlation into Hong-Ou-Mandel interference for orthogonal circularly polarized photons. The principle of parallel BS through the metasurface presents a versatile approach to manipulate light at the micro-scale, which will have potential applications in optical computing and on-chip quantum information processing.
In recent years, photon routing has garnered considerable research activity due to its key applications in quantum networking and optical communications. This paper studies the single photon routing scheme in many-emitter disordered chiral waveguide quantum electrodynamics (wQED) ladders. The wQED ladder consists of two one-dimensional lossless waveguides simultaneously and chirally coupled with a chain of dipole-dipole interacting two-level quantum emitters (QEs). In particular, we analyze how a departure from the periodic placement of the QEs due to temperature-induced position disorder can impact the routing probability. This involves analyzing how the interplay between the collective atomic effects originating from the dipole-dipole interaction and disorder in the atomic location leading to single-photon localization can change the routing probabilities. As for some key results, we find that the routing probability exhibits a considerable improvement (more than 90% value) for periodic and disordered wQED ladders when considering lattices consisting of twenty QEs. This robustness of collective effects against spontaneous emission loss and weak disorders is further confirmed by examining the routing efficiency and localization length for up to twenty QE chains. These results may find applications in quantum networking and distributed quantum computing under the realistic conditions of imperfect emitter trappings.
Tuning the near field using all-dielectric nano-antennas offers a promising approach for trapping atoms, which could enable strong single-atom-photon coupling. Here we report the numerical study of an optical trapping of a single Cs atom above a waveguide with a silicon nano-antenna, which produces a trapping potential for atoms in a chipscale configuration. Using counter-propagating incident fields, bichromatically detuned from the atomic cesium D-lines, we numerically investigate the dependence of the optical potential on the nano-antenna geometry. We tailor the near-field potential landscape by tuning the evanescent field of the waveguide using a toroidal nano-antenna, a configuration that enables trapping of ultracold Cs atoms. Our research opens up a plethora of trapping atoms applications in a chip-scale manner, from quantum computing to quantum sensing, among others.
Multipartite quantum entanglement is a powerful resource for enriching the functionality of quantum computation and quantum communication. In this Letter, we propose a new method to generate a two-photon multipath Dicke state with concurrent spontaneous parametric downconversion processes from a single periodically poled nonlinear photonic crystal. We design the poling structure to produce a three-path Dicke state where three quasi-phase-matching conditions are fulfilled simultaneously by a hybrid oneand two-dimensionally poled nonlinear photonic crystal. We use genuine multipartite entanglement concurrence to quantify the entanglement of the Dicke state. Using a more complicated poling configuration like multiple-periodically poled two-dimensional nonlinear photonic crystal, we can also produce four-path, five-path, or multipath Dicke states by a single crystal. The multiple-periodically poled two-dimensional nonlinear photonic crystal provides a new method, to the best of our knowledge, for the integrated generation of multipartite quantum light sources.
Quantum key distribution (QKD) allows distant parties to exchange cryptographic keys with unconditional security by encoding information on the degrees of freedom of photons. Polarization encoding has been extensively used for QKD along free-space, optical fiber, and satellite links. However, the polarization encoders used in such implementations are unstable, expensive, and complex and can even exhibit side channels that undermine the security of the protocol. Here we propose a self-compensating polarization encoder based on a lithium niobate phase modulator inside a Sagnac interferometer and implement it using only commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) components. Our polarization encoder combines a simple design and high stability reaching an intrinsic quantum bit error rate as low as 0.2%. Since realization is possible from the 800 to the 1550 nm band using COTS devices, our polarization modulator is a promising solution for free-space, fiber, and satellite-based QKD.
Flexible engineering of the complex shapes of the surface nanoscale axial photonics (SNAP) bottle microresonators (SBMs) is challenging for future nanophotonic technology applications. Here, we experimentally propose a powerful approach for the one-step fabrication of SBMs with simultaneous negative and positive radius variations, exhibiting a distinctive "bump-well-bump" profile. It is executed by utilizing two focused and symmetrical CO 2 laser beams exposed on the fiber surface for only several hundred milliseconds. The spectral characteristics of different eigenmodes are analyzed, providing deep insights into the complex physical processes during the CO 2 laser exposure. The shapes of the SBMs can be flexibly adjusted by the exposure time, laser power, and applied pre-strains. As a proof of this technique, the developed approach enables the efficient production of a bat SBM, ensuring a uniform field amplitude of the bat mode over the length exceeding 120 µm with 7% deviation. Our proposed technique provides a powerful technique for the efficient fabrication of SBMs with predetermined shapes, laying the groundwork for its applications on microscale optical signal processing, quantum computing, and so on.
Reliable operation of photonic integrated circuits at cryogenic temperatures would enable new capabilities for emerging computing platforms, such as quantum technologies and low-power cryogenic computing. The silicon-on-insulator platform is a highly promising approach to developing large-scale photonic integrated circuits due to its exceptional manufacturability, CMOS compatibility, and high component density. Fast, efficient, and low-loss modulation at cryogenic temperatures in silicon, however, remains an outstanding challenge, particularly without the addition of exotic nonlinear optical materials. In this paper, we demonstrate DC-Kerr-effect-based modulation at a temperature of 5 K at GHz speeds, in a silicon photonic device fabricated exclusively within a CMOS-compatible process. This work opens up a path for the integration of DC Kerr modulators in large-scale photonic integrated circuits for emerging cryogenic classical and quantum computing applications.
We propose and fully analyze the simplest technique to date (to our knowledge) for generating light-based universal quantum computing resources, namely, 2D, 3D, and n-hypercubic cluster states in general. The technique uses two standard optical components: first, a single optical parametric oscillator pumped below threshold by a monochromatic field, which generates Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled states, a.k.a. two-mode squeezed states, over the quantum optical frequency comb; second, phase modulation at frequencies that are multiples of the comb spacing (via RF or optical means). The compactness of this technique paves the way to implementing quantum computing on chip using quantum nanophotonics.
Quantum networks will enable a variety of applications, from secure communication and precision measurements to distributed quantum computing. Storing photonic qubits and controlling their frequency, bandwidth, and retrieval time are important functionalities in future optical quantum networks. Here we demonstrate these functions using an ensemble of erbium ions in yttrium orthosilicate coupled to a silicon photonic resonator and controlled via onchip electrodes. Light in the telecommunication C-band is stored, manipulated, and retrieved using a dynamic atomic frequency comb protocol controlled by linear DC Stark shifts of the ion ensemble's transition frequencies. We demonstrate memory time control in a digital fashion in increments of 50 ns, frequency shifting by more than a pulse width (±39 MHz), and a bandwidth increase by a factor of 3, from 6 to 18 MHz. Using on-chip electrodes, electric fields as high as 3 kV/cm were achieved with a low applied bias of 5 V, making this an appealing platform for rare-earth ions, which experience Stark shifts of the order of 10 kHz/(V/cm).
Strong amplification in integrated photonics is one of the most desired optical functionalities for computing, communications, sensing, and quantum information processing. Semiconductor gain and cubic nonlinearities, such as four-wave mixing and stimulated Raman and Brillouin scattering, have been among the most studied amplification mechanisms on chip. Alternatively, material platforms with strong quadratic nonlinearities promise numerous advantages with respect to gain and bandwidth, among which nanophotonic lithium niobate is one of the most promising candidates. Here, we combine quasi-phase matching with dispersion engineering in nanophotonic lithium niobate waveguides and achieve intense optical parametric amplification. We measure a broadband phase-sensitive on-chip amplification larger than 50 dB/cm in a 6-mm-long waveguide. We further confirm high gain operation in the degenerate and nondegenerate regimes by amplifying vacuum fluctuations to macroscopic levels, with on-chip gains exceeding 100 dB/cm over 600 nm of bandwidth around 2 µm. Our results unlock new possibilities for on-chip few-cycle nonlinear optics, mid-infrared photonics, and quantum photonics.
Characterizing quantum systems through experimental data is critical to applications as diverse as metrology and quantum computing. Analyzing this experimental data in a robust and reproducible manner is made challenging, however, by the lack of readily-available software for performing principled statistical analysis. We improve the robustness and reproducibility of characterization by introducing an open-source library, QInfer, to address this need. Our library makes it easy to analyze data from tomography, randomized benchmarking, and Hamiltonian learning experiments either in post-processing, or online as data is acquired. QInfer also provides functionality for predicting the performance of proposed experimental protocols from simulated runs. By delivering easy-to-use characterization tools based on principled statistical analysis, QInfer helps address many outstanding challenges facing quantum technology.
In this work we present a security analysis for quantum key distribution, establishing a rigorous tradeoff between various protocol and security parameters for a class of entanglement-based and prepare-and-measure protocols. The goal of this paper is twofold: 1) to review and clarify the stateof-the-art security analysis based on entropic uncertainty relations, and 2) to provide an accessible resource for researchers interested in a security analysis of quantum cryptographic protocols that takes into account finite resource effects. For this purpose we collect and clarify several arguments spread in the literature on the subject with the goal of making this treatment largely self-contained.
For the past twenty years, Matrix Product States (MPS) have been widely used in solid state physics to approximate the ground state of one-dimensional spin chains. In this paper, we study homogeneous MPS (hMPS), or MPS constructed via site-independent tensors and a boundary condition. Exploiting a connection with the theory of matrix algebras, we derive two structural properties shared by all hMPS, namely: a) there exist local operators which annihilate all hMPS of a given bond dimension; and b) there exist local operators which, when applied over any hMPS of a given bond dimension, decouple (cut) the particles where they act from the spin chain while at the same time join (glue) the two loose ends back again into a hMPS. Armed with these tools, we show how to systematically derive 'bond dimension witnesses', or 2local operators whose expectation value allows us to lower bound the bond dimension of the underlying hMPS. We extend some of these results to the ansatz of Projected Entangled Pairs States (PEPS). As a bonus, we use our insight on the structure of hMPS to: a) derive some theoretical limitations on the use of hMPS and hPEPS for ground state energy computations; b) show how to decrease the complexity and boost the speed of convergence of the semidefinite programming hierarchies described in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 115, 020501 (2015)] for the characterization of finite-dimensional quantum correlations.
Information-theoretical quantities such as statistical distinguishability typically result from optimisations over all conceivable observables. Physical theories, however, are not generally considered valid for all mathematically allowed measurements. For instance, quantum field theories are not meant to be correct or even consistent at arbitrarily small lengthscales. A general way of limiting such an optimisation to certain observables is to first coarse-grain the states by a quantum channel. We show how to calculate contractive quantum information metrics on coarse-grained equilibrium states of free bosonic systems (Gaussian states), in directions generated by arbitrary perturbations of the Hamiltonian. As an example, we study the Klein-Gordon field. If the phase-space resolution is coarse compared to , the various metrics become equal and the calculations simplify. In that context, we compute the scale dependence of the distinguishability of the quartic interaction.
We present a scheme for dissipatively generating maximal entanglement in a heralded manner. Our setup requires incoherent interactions with two thermal baths at different temperatures, but no source of work or control.
We improve the number of T gates needed to perform an n-bit adder from 8n + O(1) [1, 7, 10] to 4n + O(1). We do so via a "temporary logical-AND" construction which uses four T gates to store the logical-AND of two qubits into an ancilla and zero T gates to later erase the ancilla. This construction is equivalent to one by Jones [15], except that our framing makes it clear that the technique is far more widely applicable than previously realized. Temporary logical-ANDs can be applied to integer arithmetic, modular arithmetic, rotation synthesis, the quantum Fourier transform, Shor's algorithm, Grover oracles, and many other circuits. Because T gates dominate the cost of quantum computation based on the surface code, and temporary logical-ANDs are widely applicable, this represents a significant reduction in projected costs of quantum computation. In addition to our n-bit adder, we present an n-bit controlled adder circuit with T-count of 8n + O(1), an out-of-place adder that can be uncomputed without using T gates, and discuss some other constructions whose T-count is improved by the temporary logical-AND.
For both unitary and open qubit dynamics, we compare asymmetry monotone-based bounds on the minimal time required for an initial qubit state to evolve to a final qubit state from which it is probabilistically distinguishable with fixed minimal error probability (i.e., the minimal error distinguishability time). For the case of unitary dynamics generated by a time-independent Hamiltonian, we derive a necessary and sufficient condition on two asymmetry monotones that guarantees that an arbitrary state of a twolevel quantum system or a separable state of N two-level quantum systems will unitarily evolve to another state from which it can be distinguished with a fixed minimal error probability δ ∈ [0, 1/2]. This condition is used to order the set of qubit states based on their distinguishability time, and to derive an optimal release time for driven two-level systems such as those that occur, e.g., in the Landau-Zener problem. For the case of non-unitary dynamics, we compare three lower bounds to the distinguishability time, including a new type of lower bound which is formulated in terms of the asymmetry of the uniformly time-twirled initial system-plus-environment state with respect to the generator H SE of the Stinespring isometry corresponding to the dynamics, specifically, in terms of [H SE , ρ av (τ )] 1 , where ρ av (τ ) :=
The concept of divisibility of dynamical maps is used to introduce an analogous concept for quantum channels by analyzing the simulability of channels by means of dynamical maps. In particular, this is addressed for Lindblad divisible, completely positive divisible and positive divisible dynamical maps. The corresponding L-divisible, CP-divisible and Pdivisible subsets of channels are characterized (exploiting the results by Wolf et al. 
Here we propose a new strategy to monitor and characterize entanglement genesis in a half parity measurement setup, that relies on the continuous readout of an energetic observable which is the half-parity observable itself. Based on a quantumtrajectory approach, we theoretically analyze the statistics of energetic fluctuations for a pair of continuously monitored qubits. We quantitatively relate these energetic fluctuations to the rate of entanglement produced between the qubits, and build an energetic-based estimator to assess the presence of entanglement in the circuit. Remarkably, this estimator is valid at the single-trajectory level and shows to be robust against finite detection efficiency. Our work paves the road towards a fundamental understanding of the stochastic energetic processes associated with entanglement genesis, and opens new perspectives for witnessing quantum correlations thanks to quantum thermodynamic quantities.
Simulating quantum circuits classically is an important area of research in quantum information, with applications in computational complexity and validation of quantum devices. One of the state-of-theart simulators, that of Bravyi et al, utilizes a randomized sparsification technique to approximate the output state of a quantum circuit by a stabilizer sum with a reduced number of terms. In this paper, we describe an improved Monte Carlo algorithm for performing randomized sparsification. This algorithm reduces the runtime of computing the approximate state by the factor /m, where and m are respectively the total and non-Clifford gate counts. The main technique is a circuit recompilation routine based on manipulating exponentiated Pauli operators. The recompilation routine also facilitates numerical search for Clifford decompositions of products of non-Clifford gates, which can further reduce the runtime in certain cases by reducing the 1-norm of the vector of expansion, a 1 . It may additionally lead to a framework for optimizing circuit implementations over a gate-set, reducing the overhead for state-injection in faulttolerant implementations. We provide a concise exposition of randomized sparsification, and describe how to use it to estimate circuit amplitudes in a way which can be generalized to a broader class of gates and states. This latter method can be used to obtain additive error estimates of circuit probabilities with a faster runtime than the full techniques of Bravyi et al. Such estimates are useful for validating near-term quantum devices provided that the target probability is not exponentially small.
We implement a quantum error correction algorithm for bit-flip errors on the topological toric code using deep reinforcement learning. An action-value Q-function encodes the discounted value of moving a defect to a neighboring site on the square grid (the action) depending on the full set of defects on the torus (the syndrome or state). The Q-function is represented by a deep convolutional neural network. Using the translational invariance on the torus allows for viewing each defect from a central perspective which significantly simplifies the state space representation independently of the number of defect pairs. The training is done using experience replay, where data from the algorithm being played out is stored and used for mini-batch upgrade of the Q-network. We find performance which is close to, and for small error rates asymptotically equivalent to, that achieved by the Minimum Weight Perfect Matching algorithm for code distances up to d = 7. Our results show that it is possible for a self-trained agent without supervision or support algorithms to find a decoding scheme that performs on par with hand-made algorithms, opening up for future machine engineered decoders for more general error models and error correcting codes.
Bell inequalities are an important tool in device-independent quantum information processing because their violation can serve as a certificate of relevant quantum properties. Probably the best known example of a Bell inequality is due to Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt (CHSH), which is defined in the simplest scenario involving two dichotomic measurements and whose all key properties are well understood. There have been many attempts to generalise the CHSH Bell inequality to higher-dimensional quantum systems, however, for most of them the maximal quantum violation-the key quantity for most deviceindependent applications-remains unknown. On the other hand, the constructions for which the maximal quantum violation can be computed, do not preserve the natural property of the CHSH inequality, namely, that the maximal quantum violation is achieved by the maximally entangled state and measurements corresponding to mutually unbiased bases. In this work we propose a novel family of Bell inequalities which exhibit precisely these properties, and whose maximal quantum violation can be computed analytically. In the simplest scenario it recovers the CHSH Bell inequality. These inequalities involve d measurements settings, each having d outcomes for an arbitrary prime number d ≥ 3. We then show that in the three-outcome case our Bell inequality can be used to self-test the maximally entangled state of two-qutrits and three mutually unbiased bases at each site. Yet, we demonstrate that in the case of more outcomes, their maximal violation does not allow for self-testing in the standard sense, which motivates the definition of a new weak form of self-testing. The ability to certify high-dimensional MUBs makes these inequalities attractive from the device-independent cryptography point of view.
Parametrized quantum circuits initialized with random initial parameter values are characterized by barren plateaus where the gradient becomes exponentially small in the number of qubits. In this technical note we theoretically motivate and empirically validate an initialization strategy which can resolve the barren plateau problem for practical applications. The technique involves randomly selecting some of the initial parameter values, then choosing the remaining values so that the circuit is a sequence of shallow blocks that each evaluates to the identity. This initialization limits the effective depth of the circuits used to calculate the first parameter update so that they cannot be stuck in a barren plateau at the start of training. In turn, this makes some of the most compact ansätze usable in practice, which was not possible before even for rather basic problems. We show empirically that variational quantum eigensolvers and quantum neural networks initialized using this strategy can be trained using a gradient based method.
Quantum error correction is widely thought to be the key to fault-tolerant quantum computation.
The existence of correlations between the parts of a quantum system on the one hand, and entanglement between them on the other, are different properties. Yet, one intuitively would identify strong N -party correlations with N -party entanglement in an N -partite quantum state. If the local systems are qubits, this intuition is confirmed: The state with the strongest N -party correlations is the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state, which does have genuine multipartite entanglement. However, for high-dimensional local systems the state with strongest N -party correlations may be a tensor product of Bell states, that is, partially separable.
Simulating the time-evolution of quantum mechanical systems is BQP-hard and expected to be one of the foremost applications of quantum computers. We consider classical algorithms for the approximation of Hamiltonian dynamics using subsampling methods from randomized numerical linear algebra. We derive a simulation technique whose runtime scales polynomially in the number of qubits and the Frobenius norm of the Hamiltonian. As an immediate application, we show that sample based quantum simulation, a type of evolution where the Hamiltonian is a density matrix, can be efficiently classically simulated under specific structural conditions. Our main technical contribution is a randomized algorithm for approximating Hermitian matrix exponentials. The proof leverages a low-rank, symmetric approximation via the Nyström method. Our results suggest that under strong sampling assumptions there exist classical poly-logarithmic time simulations of quantum computations.
Quantum coherence generated in a physical process can only be cast as a potentially useful resource if its effects can be detected at a later time. Recently, the notion of non-coherence-generating-and-detecting (NCGD) dynamics has been introduced and related to the classicality of the statistics associated with sequential measurements at different times. However, in order for a dynamics to be NCGD, its propagators need to satisfy a given set of conditions for all triples of consecutive times. We reduce this to a finite set of d(d -1) conditions, where d is the dimension of the quantum system, provided that the generator is time-independent. Further conditions are derived for the more general timedependent case. The application of this result to the case of a qubit dynamics allows us to elucidate which kind of noise gives rise to non-coherence-generation-and-detection.
Kliuchnikov, Maslov, and Mosca proved in 2012 that a 2 × 2 unitary matrix V can be exactly represented by a single-qubit Clifford+T circuit if and only if the entries of V belong to the ring Z[1/ √ 2, i]. Later that year, Giles and Selinger showed that the same restriction applies to matrices that can be exactly represented by a multi-qubit Clifford+T circuit. These number-theoretic characterizations shed new light upon the structure of Clifford+T circuits and led to remarkable developments in the field of quantum compiling. In the present paper, we provide number-theoretic characterizations for certain restricted Clifford+T circuits by considering unitary matrices over subrings of Z[1/ √ 2, i]. We focus on the subrings
Central in entanglement theory is the characterization of local transformations among pure multipartite states. As a first step towards such a characterization, one needs to identify those states which can be transformed into each other via local operations with a nonvanishing probability. The classes obtained in this way are called SLOCC classes. They can be categorized into three disjoint types: the null-cone, the polystable states and strictly semistable states. Whereas the former two are well characterized, not much is known about strictly semistable states. We derive a criterion for the existence of the latter. In particular, we show that there exists a strictly semistable state if and only if there exist two polystable states whose orbits have different dimensions. We illustrate the usefulness of this criterion by applying it to tripartite states where one of the systems is a qubit. Moreover, we scrutinize all SLOCC classes of these systems and derive a complete characterization of the corresponding orbit types. We present representatives of strictly semistable classes and show to which polystable state they converge via local regular operators.
From this perspective, it seems odd that a single unifying question has to be approached with so different methods in the different regimes -physics, philosophy, or outright speculation. But is this actually a fair comparison? Isn't physics, after all, more concerned with the question of "What is the world like?" rather than "What will I see next?" Not if we live in a quantum world. Ultimately, the formalism of quantum theory tells us the probabilities of outcomes of experiments, i.e. the chances of what to see next, given the physical context. In particular, due to results like Bell's theorem 
Unitary t-designs are the bread and butter of quantum information theory and beyond. An important issue in practice is that of efficiently constructing good approximations of such unitary t-designs. Building on results by Aubrun (Comm. Math. Phys. 2009), we prove that sampling d t poly(t, log d, 1/ ) unitaries from an exact t-design provides with positive probability an -approximate t-design, if the error is measured in one-to-one norm. As an application, we give a randomized construction of a quantum encryption scheme that has roughly the same key size and security as the quantum one-time pad, but possesses the additional property of being non-malleable against adversaries without quantum side information.
In this paper we propose a technique for distributing entanglement in architectures in which interactions between pairs of qubits are constrained to a fixed network G. This allows for two-qubit operations to be performed between qubits which are remote from each other in G, through gate teleportation. We demonstrate how adapting quantum linear network coding to this problem of entanglement distribution in a network of qubits can be used to solve the problem of distributing Bell states and GHZ states in parallel, when bottlenecks in G would otherwise force such entangled states to be distributed sequentially.
We investigate quantum error correction using continuous parity measurements to correct bit-flip errors with the three-qubit code. Continuous monitoring of errors brings the benefit of a continuous stream of information, which facilitates passive error tracking in real time. It reduces overhead from the standard gatebased approach that periodically entangles and measures additional ancilla qubits. However, the noisy analog signals from continuous parity measurements mandate more complicated signal processing to interpret syndromes accurately. We analyze the performance of several practical filtering methods for continuous error correction and demonstrate that they are viable alternatives to the standard ancilla-based approach. As an optimal filter, we discuss an unnormalized (linear) Bayesian filter, with improved computational efficiency compared to the related Wonham filter introduced by Mabuchi [New J. Phys. 11, 105044 (2009)]. We compare this optimal continuous filter to two practical variations of the simplest periodic boxcar-averaging-andthresholding filter, targeting real-time hardware implementations with low-latency circuitry. As variations, we introduce a non-Markovian "halfboxcar" filter and a Markovian filter with a second adjustable threshold; these filters eliminate the dominant source of error in the boxcar filter, and compare favorably to the optimal filter. For each filter, we derive analytic results for the decay in average fidelity and verify them with numerical simulations.
We propose a very large family of benchmarks for probing the performance of quantum computers. We call them volumetric benchmarks (VBs) because they generalize IBM's benchmark for measuring quantum volume 
In this note we present explicit canonical forms for all the elements in the twoqubit CNOT-Dihedral group, with minimal numbers of controlled-S (CS) and controlled-X (CX) gates, using the generating set of quantum gates [X, T, CX, CS]. We provide an algorithm to successively construct the n-qubit CNOT-Dihedral group, asserting an optimal number of controlled-X (CX) gates. These results are needed to estimate gate errors via non-Clifford randomized benchmarking and may have further applications to circuit optimization over fault-tolerant gate sets.
The teleportation model of quantum computation introduced by Gottesman and Chuang (1999) motivated the development of the Clifford hierarchy. Despite its intrinsic value for quantum computing, the widespread use of magic state distillation, which is closely related to this model, emphasizes the importance of comprehending the hierarchy. There is currently a limited understanding of the structure of this hierarchy, apart from the case of diagonal unitaries (Cui et al., 2017; Rengaswamy et al. 2019). We explore the structure of the second and third levels of the hierarchy, the first level being the ubiquitous Pauli group, via the Weyl (i.e., Pauli) expansion of unitaries at these levels. In particular, we characterize the support of the standard Clifford operations on the Pauli group. Since conjugation of a Pauli by a third level unitary produces traceless Hermitian Cliffords, we characterize their Pauli support as well. Semi-Clifford unitaries are known to have ancilla savings in the teleportation model, and we explore their Pauli support via symplectic transvections. Finally, we show that, up to multiplication by a Clifford, every third level unitary commutes with at least one Pauli matrix. This can be used inductively to show that, up to a multiplication by a Clifford, every third level unitary is supported on a maximal commutative subgroup of the Pauli group. Additionally, it can be easily seen that the latter implies the generalized semi-Clifford conjecture, proven by Beigi and Shor (2010). We discuss potential applications in quantum error correction and the design of flag gadgets.
We present a simple but general framework for constructing quantum circuits that implement the multiply-controlled unitary Select(H) := | | ⊗ H , where H = H is the Jordan-Wigner transform of an arbitrary second-quantised fermionic Hamiltonian. Select(H) is one of the main subroutines of several quantum algorithms, including stateof-the-art techniques for Hamiltonian simulation. If each term in the second-quantised Hamiltonian involves at most k spin-orbitals and k is a constant independent of the total number of spin-orbitals n (as is the case for the majority of quantum chemistry and condensed matter models considered in the literature, for which k is typically 2 or 4), our implementation of Select(H) requires no ancilla qubits and uses O(n) Clifford+T gates, with the Clifford gates applied in O(log 2 n) layers and the T gates in O(log n) layers. This achieves an exponential improvement in both Clifford-and T -depth over previous work, while maintaining linear gate count and reducing the number of ancillae to zero.
A central tenet of theoretical cryptography is the study of the minimal assumptions required to implement a given cryptographic primitive. One such primitive is the one-time memory (OTM), introduced by Goldwasser, Kalai, and Rothblum [CRYPTO 2008], which is a classical functionality modeled after a non-interactive 1-out-of-2 oblivious transfer, and which is complete for one-time classical and quantum programs. It is known that secure OTMs do not exist in the standard model in both the classical and quantum settings. Here, we propose a scheme for using quantum information, together with the assumption of stateless (i.e., reusable) hardware tokens, to build statistically secure OTMs. Via the semidefinite programming-based quantum games framework of Gutoski and Watrous [STOC 2007], we prove security for a malicious receiver making at most 0.114n adaptive queries to the token (for n the key size), in the quantum universal composability framework, but leave open the question of security against a polynomial amount of queries. Compared to alternative schemes derived from the literature on quantum money, our scheme is technologically simple since it is of the "prepare-and-measure" type. We also give two impossibility results showing certain assumptions in our scheme cannot be relaxed.
We present a method to detect quantum memory in a non-Markovian process. We call a process Markovian when the environment does not provide a memory that retains correlations across different system-environment interactions. We define two types of non-Markovian processes, depending on the required memory being classical or quantum. We formalise this distinction using the process matrix formalism, through which a process is represented as a multipartite state. Within this formalism, a test for entanglement in a state can be mapped to a test for quantum memory in the corresponding process. This allows us to apply separability criteria and entanglement witnesses to the detection of quantum memory. We demonstrate the method in a simple model where both system and environment are single interacting qubits and map the parameters that lead to quantum memory. As with entanglement witnesses, our method of witnessing quantum memory provides a versatile experimental tool for open quantum systems.
We analyse orthogonal bases in a composite N × N Hilbert space describing a bipartite quantum system and look for a basis with optimal single-sided mutual state distinguishability. This condition implies that in each subsystem the N 2 reduced states form a regular simplex of a maximal edge length, defined with respect to the trace distance. In the case N = 2 of a two-qubit system our solution coincides with the elegant joint measurement introduced by Gisin. We derive explicit expressions of an analogous constellation for N = 3 and provide a general construction of N 2 states forming such an optimal basis in H N ⊗H N . Our construction is valid for all dimensions for which a symmetric informationally complete (SIC) generalized measurement is known. Furthermore, we show that the one-party measurement that distinguishes the states of an optimal basis of the composite system leads to a local quantum state tomography with a linear reconstruction formula. Finally, we test the introduced tomographical scheme on a complete set of three mutually unbiased bases for a single qubit using two different IBM machines.
It is well known that a quantum circuit on N qubits composed of Clifford gates with the addition of k non Clifford gates can be simulated on a classical computer by an algorithm scaling as poly(N )exp (k) 
Measurement noise is one of the main sources of errors in currently available quantum devices based on superconducting qubits. At the same time, the complexity of its characterization and mitigation often exhibits exponential scaling with the system size. In this work, we introduce a correlated measurement noise model that can be efficiently described and characterized, and which admits effective noise-mitigation on the level of marginal probability distributions. Noise mitigation can be performed up to some error for which we derive upper bounds. Characterization of the model is done efficiently using Diagonal Detector Overlapping Tomography -a generalization of the recently introduced Quantum Overlapping Tomography to the problem of reconstruction of readout noise with restricted locality. The procedure allows to characterize k-local measurement cross-talk on N -qubit device using O k2 k log (N ) circuits containing random combinations of X and identity gates. We perform experiments on 15 (23) qubits using IBM's (Rigetti's) devices to test both the noise model and the error-mitigation scheme, and obtain an average reduction of errors by a factor > 22 (> 5.5) compared to no mitigation. Interestingly, we find that correlations in the measurement noise do not correspond to the physical layout of the device. Furthermore, we study numerically the effects of readout noise on the performance of the Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm (QAOA). We observe in simulations that for numerous objective Hamiltonians, including random MAX-2-SAT instances and the Sherrington-Kirkpatrick model, the noisemitigation improves the quality of the optimization. Finally, we provide arguments why in the course of QAOA optimization the estimates of the local energy (or cost) terms often behave like uncorrelated variables, which greatly reduces sampling complexity of the energy estimation compared to the pessimistic error analysis. We also show that similar effects are expected for Haar-random quantum states and states generated by shallow-depth random circuits.
At the dawn of Quantum Physics, Wigner and Weisskopf obtained a full analytical description (a photon portrait) of the emission of a single photon by a twolevel system, using the basis of frequency modes 
This paper presents "Stim", a fast simulator for quantum stabilizer circuits. The paper explains how Stim works and compares it to existing tools. With no foreknowledge, Stim can analyze a distance 100 surface code circuit (20 thousand qubits, 8 million gates, 1 million measurements) in 15 seconds and then begin sampling full circuit shots at a rate of 1 kHz. Stim uses a stabilizer tableau representation, similar to Aaronson and Gottesman's CHP simulator, but with three main improvements. First, Stim improves the asymptotic complexity of deterministic measurement from quadratic to linear by tracking the inverse of the circuit's stabilizer tableau. Second, Stim improves the constant factors of the algorithm by using a cache-friendly data layout and 256 bit wide SIMD instructions. Third, Stim only uses expensive stabilizer tableau simulation to create an initial reference sample. Further samples are collected in bulk by using that sample as a reference for batches of Pauli frames propagating through the circuit.
We present a general framework for modifying quantum approximate optimization algorithms (QAOA) to solve constrained network flow problems. By exploiting an analogy between flow-constraints and Gauss' law for electromagnetism, we design lattice quantum electrodynamics (QED)-inspired mixing Hamiltonians that preserve flow constraints throughout the QAOA process. This results in an exponential reduction in the size of the configuration space that needs to be explored, which we show through numerical simulations, yields higher quality approximate solutions compared to the original QAOA routine. We outline a specific implementation for edge-disjoint path (EDP) problems related to traffic congestion minimization, numerically analyze the effect of initial state choice, and explore trade-offs between circuit complexity and qubit resources via a particle-vortex duality mapping. Comparing the effect of initial states reveals that starting with an ergodic (unbiased) superposition of solutions yields better performance than beginning with the mixer ground-state, suggesting a departure from the "short-cut to adiabaticity" mechanism often used to motivate QAOA.
Distributing entanglement over long distances is one of the central tasks in quantum networks. An important problem, especially for near-term quantum networks, is to develop optimal entanglement distribution protocols that take into account the limitations of current and near-term hardware, such as quantum memories with limited coherence time. We address this problem by initiating the study of quantum network protocols for entanglement distribution using the theory of decision processes, such that optimal protocols (referred to as policies in the context of decision processes) can be found using dynamic programming or reinforcement learning algorithms. As a first step, in this work we focus exclusively on the elementary link level. We start by defining a quantum decision process for elementary links, along with figures of merit for evaluating policies. We then provide two algorithms for determining policies, one of which we prove to be optimal (with respect to fidelity and success probability) among all policies. Then we show that the previously-studied memory-cutoff protocol can be phrased as a policy within our decision process framework, allowing us to obtain several new fundamental results about it. The conceptual developments and results of this work pave the way for the systematic study of the fundamental limitations of near-term quantum networks, and the requirements for physically realizing them.
The mutual information is a measure of classical and quantum correlations of great interest in quantum information. It is also relevant in quantum many-body physics, by virtue of satisfying an area law for thermal states and bounding all correlation functions. However, calculating it exactly or approximately is often challenging in practice. Here, we consider alternative definitions based on Rényi divergences. Their main advantage over their von Neumann counterpart is that they can be expressed as a variational problem whose cost function can be efficiently evaluated for families of states like matrix product operators while preserving all desirable properties of a measure of correlations. In particular, we show that they obey a thermal area law in great generality, and that they upper bound all correlation functions. We also investigate their behavior on certain tensor network states and on classical thermal distributions.
Motivated by estimation of quantum noise models, we study the problem of learning a Pauli channel, or more generally the Pauli error rates of an arbitrary channel. By employing a novel reduction to the "Population Recovery" problem, we give an extremely simple algorithm that learns the Pauli error rates of an n-qubit channel to precision in ∞ using just O(1/ 2 ) log(n/ ) applications of the channel. This is optimal up to the logarithmic factors. Our algorithm uses only unentangled state preparation and measurements, and the post-measurement classical runtime is just an O(1/ ) factor larger than the measurement data size. It is also impervious to a limited model of measurement noise where heralded measurement failures occur independently with probability ≤ 1/4.
Barren plateau landscapes correspond to gradients that vanish exponentially in the number of qubits. Such landscapes have been demonstrated for variational quantum algorithms and quantum neural networks with deep circuits, global cost functions, large entanglement, or hardware noise. For obvious reasons, it is expected that gradient-based optimizers will be significantly affected by barren plateaus. However, whether or not gradient-free optimizers are impacted is a topic of debate, with some arguing that gradient-free approaches are unaffected by barren plateaus.
The fermionic quantum emulator (FQE) is a collection of protocols for emulating quantum dynamics of fermions efficiently taking advantage of common symmetries present in chemical, materials, and condensed-matter systems. The library is fully integrated with the OpenFermion software package and serves as the simulation backend. The FQE reduces memory footprint by exploiting number and spin symmetry along with custom evolution routines for sparse and dense Hamiltonians, allowing us to study significantly larger quantum circuits at modest computational cost when compared against qubit state vector simulators. This release paper outlines the technical details of the simulation methods and key advantages.
Sharing correlated random variables is a resource for a number of information theoretic tasks such as privacy amplification, simultaneous message passing, secret sharing and many more. In this article, we show that to establish such a resource called shared randomness, quantum systems provide an advantage over their classical counterpart. Precisely, we show that appropriate albeit fixed measurements on a shared two-qubit state can generate correlations which cannot be obtained from any possible state on two classical bits. In a resource theoretic set-up, this feature of quantum systems can be interpreted as an advantage in winning a two players co-operative game, which we call the 'nonmonopolize social subsidy' game. It turns out that the quantum states leading to the desired advantage must possess non-classicality in the form of quantum discord. On the other hand, while distributing such sources of shared randomness between two parties via noisy channels, quantum channels with zero capacity as well as with classical capacity strictly less than unity perform more efficiently than the perfect classical channel. Protocols presented here are noiserobust and hence should be realizable with state-of-the-art quantum devices.
scqubits is an open-source Python package for simulating and analyzing superconducting circuits. It provides convenient routines to obtain energy spectra of common superconducting qubits, such as the transmon, fluxonium, flux, cos(2φ) and the 0-π qubit. scqubits also features a number of options for visualizing the computed spectral data, including plots of energy levels as a function of external parameters, display of matrix elements of various operators as well as means to easily plot qubit wavefunctions. Many of these tools are not limited to single qubits, but extend to composite Hilbert spaces consisting of coupled superconducting qubits and harmonic (or weakly anharmonic) modes. The library provides an extensive suite of methods for estimating qubit coherence times due to a variety of commonly considered noise channels. While all functionality of scqubits can be accessed programatically, the package also implements GUI-like widgets that, with a few clicks can help users both create relevant Python objects, as well as explore their properties through various plots. When applicable, the library harnesses the computing power of multiple cores via multiprocessing. scqubits further exposes a direct interface to the Quantum Toolbox in Python (QuTiP) package, allowing the user to efficiently leverage QuTiP's proven capabilities for simulating time evolution.
We demonstrate characterizing quantum evolutions via matrix factorization algorithm, a particular type of the recommender system (RS). A system undergoing a quantum evolution can be characterized in several ways. Here we choose (i) quantum correlations quantified by measures such as entropy, negativity, or discord, and (ii) state-fidelity. Using quantum registers with up to 10 qubits, we demonstrate that an RS can efficiently characterize both unitary and nonunitary evolutions. After carrying out a detailed performance-analysis of the RS in two-qubits, we show that it can be used to distinguish a clean database of quantum correlations from a noisy or a fake one. Moreover, we find that the RS brings about a significant computational advantage for building a large database of quantum discord, for which no simple closed-form expression exists. Also, RS can efficiently characterize systems undergoing nonunitary evolutions in terms of quantum discord reduction as well as state-fidelity. Finally, we utilize RS for the construction of discord phase space in a nonlinear quantum system.
Completely positive and trace-preserving maps characterize physically implementable quantum operations. On the other hand, general linear maps, such as positive but not completely positive maps, which can not be physically implemented, are fundamental ingredients in quantum information, both in theoretical and practical perspectives. This raises the question of how well one can simulate or approximate the action of a general linear map by physically implementable operations. In this work, we introduce a systematic framework to resolve this task using the quasiprobability decomposition technique. We decompose a target linear map into a linear combination of physically implementable operations and introduce the physical implementability measure as the least amount of negative portion that the quasiprobability must pertain, which directly quantifies the cost of simulating a given map using physically implementable quantum operations. We show this measure is efficiently computable by semidefinite programs and prove several properties of this measure, such as faithfulness, additivity, and unitary invariance. We derive lower and upper bounds in terms of the Choi operator's trace norm and obtain analytic expressions for several linear maps of practical interests. Furthermore, we endow this measure with an operational meaning within the quantum error mitigation scenario: it establishes the lower bound of the sampling cost achievable via the quasiprobability decomposition technique. In particular, for parallel quantum noises, we show that global error mitigation has no advantage over local error mitigation.
The indistinguishability of quantum particles is widely used as a resource for the generation of entanglement. Linear quantum networks (LQNs), in which identical particles linearly evolve to arrive at multimode detectors, exploit the indistinguishability to generate various multipartite entangled states by the proper control of transformation operators. However, it is challenging to devise a suitable LQN that carries a specific entangled state or compute the possible entangled state in a given LQN as the particle and mode number increase. This research presents a mapping process of arbitrary LQNs to graphs, which provides a powerful tool for analyzing and designing LQNs to generate multipartite entanglement. We also introduce the perfect matching diagram (PM diagram), which is a refined directed graph that includes all the essential information on the entanglement generation by an LQN. The PM diagram furnishes rigorous criteria for the entanglement of an LQN and solid guidelines for designing suitable LQNs for the genuine entanglement. Based on the structure of PM diagrams, we compose LQNs for fundamental N -partite genuinely entangled states.
Mapping the decoding of quantum error correcting (QEC) codes to classical disordered statistical mechanics models allows one to determine critical error thresholds of QEC codes under phenomenological noise models. Here, we extend this mapping to admit realistic, multi-parameter noise models of faulty QEC circuits, derive the associated strongly correlated classical spin models, and illustrate this approach for a quantum repetition code with faulty stabilizer readout circuits. We use Monte-Carlo simulations to study the resulting phase diagram and benchmark our results against a minimumweight perfect matching decoder. The presented method provides an avenue to assess fundamental thresholds of QEC circuits, independent of specific decoding strategies, and can thereby help guiding the development of near-term QEC hardware.
In recent years simulations of chemistry and condensed materials has emerged as one of the preeminent applications of quantum computing, offering an exponential speedup for the solution of the electronic structure for certain strongly correlated electronic systems. To date, most treatments have ignored the question of whether relativistic effects, which are described most generally by quantum electrodynamics (QED), can also be simulated on a quantum computer in polynomial time. Here we show that effective QED, which is equivalent to QED to second order in perturbation theory, can be simulated in polynomial time under reasonable assumptions while properly treating all four components of the wavefunction of the fermionic field. In particular, we provide a detailed analysis of such simulations in position and momentum basis using Trotter-Suzuki formulas. We find that the number of T -gates needed to perform such simulations on a 3D lattice of n s sites scales at worst as O(n 3 s / ) 1+o(1) in the thermodynamic limit for position basis simulations and O(n 4+2/3 s / ) 1+o(1) in momentum basis. We also find that qubitization scales slightly better with a worst case scaling of O(n 2+2/3 s / ) for lattice eQED and complications in the prepare circuit leads to a slightly worse scaling in momentum basis of O(n 5+2/3 s / ). We further provide concrete gate counts for simulating a relativistic version of the uniform electron gas that show challenging problems can be simulated using fewer than 10 13 non-Clifford operations and also provide a detailed discussion of how to prepare multi-reference configuration interaction states in effective QED which can provide a reasonable initial guess for the ground state. Finally, we estimate the planewave cutoffs needed to accurately simulate heavy elements such as gold.
We consider a quasi-probability distribution of work for an isolated quantum system coupled to the energy-storage device given by the ideal weight. Specifically, we analyze a trade-off between changes in average energy and changes in weight's variance, where work is extracted from the coherent and incoherent ergotropy of the system. Primarily, we reveal that the extraction of positive coherent ergotropy can be accompanied by the reduction of work fluctuations (quantified by a variance loss) by utilizing the non-classical states of a work reservoir. On the other hand, we derive a fluctuation-decoherence relation for a quantum weight, defining a lower bound of its energy dispersion via a dumping function of the coherent contribution to the system's ergotropy. Specifically, it reveals that unlocking ergotropy from coherences results in high fluctuations, which diverge when the total coherent energy is unlocked. The proposed autonomous protocol of work extraction shows a significant difference between extracting coherent and incoherent ergotropy: The former can decrease the variance, but its absolute value diverges if more and more energy is extracted, whereas for the latter, the gain is always non-negative, but a total (incoherent) ergotropy can be extracted with finite work fluctuations. Furthermore, we present the framework in terms of the introduced quasi-probability distribution, which has a physical interpretation of its cumulants, is free from the invasive nature of measurements, and reduces to the two-point measurement scheme (TPM) for incoherent states. Finally, we analytically solve the workvariance trade-off for a qubit, explicitly revealing all the above quantum and classical regimes.
Quantum error correction has recently been shown to benefit greatly from specific physical encodings of the code qubits. In particular, several researchers have considered the individual code qubits being encoded with the continuous variable Gottesman-Kitaev-Preskill (GKP) code, and then imposed an outer discrete-variable code such as the surface code on these GKP qubits. Under such a concatenation scheme, the analog information from the inner GKP error correction improves the noise threshold of the outer code. However, the surface code has vanishing rate and demands a lot of resources with growing distance. In this work, we concatenate the GKP code with generic quantum low-density parity-check (QLDPC) codes and demonstrate a natural way to exploit the GKP analog information in iterative decoding algorithms. We first show the noise thresholds for two lifted product QLDPC code families, and then show the improvements of noise thresholds when the iterative decoder -a hardwarefriendly min-sum algorithm (MSA) -utilizes the GKP analog information. We also show that, when the GKP analog information is
Quantum Phase Estimation is one of the most useful quantum computing algorithms for quantum chemistry and as such, significant effort has been devoted to designing efficient implementations. In this article, we introduce TFermion, a library designed to estimate the T-gate cost of such algorithms, for an arbitrary molecule. As examples of usage, we estimate the T-gate cost of a few simple molecules and compare the same Taylorization algorithms using Gaussian and plane-wave basis.
Top-performance sources of photonic entanglement are an indispensable resource for many applications in quantum communication, most notably quantum key distribution. However, up to now, no source has been shown to simultaneously exhibit the high pair-creation rate, broad bandwidth, excellent state fidelity, and low intrinsic loss necessary for gigabit secure key rates. In this work, we present for the first time a source of polarization-entangled photon pairs at telecommunication wavelengths that covers all these needs of real-world quantum-cryptographic applications, thus enabling unprecedented quantum-secure key rates of more than 1 Gbit/s. Our source is designed to optimally exploit state-of-the-art telecommunication equipment and detection systems. Any technological improvement of the latter would result in an even higher rate without modification of the source. We discuss the used wavelength-multiplexing approach, including its potential for multi-user quantum networks and its fundamental limitations. Our source paves the way for high-speed quantum encryption approaching presentday internet bandwidth.
Quantum error correction is believed to be a necessity for large-scale fault-tolerant quantum computation. In the past two decades, various constructions of quantum error-correcting codes (QECCs) have been developed, leading to many good code families. However, the majority of these codes are not suitable for near-term quantum devices. Here we present VarQEC, a noiseresilient variational quantum algorithm to search for quantum codes with a hardwareefficient encoding circuit. The cost functions are inspired by the most general and fundamental requirements of a QECC, the Knill-Laflamme conditions. Given the target noise channel (or the target code parameters) and the hardware connectivity graph, we optimize a shallow variational quantum circuit to prepare the basis states of an eligible code. In principle, Var-QEC can find quantum codes for any error model, whether additive or non-additive, degenerate or non-degenerate, pure or impure. We have verified its effectiveness by (re)discovering some symmetric and asymmetric codes, e.g., ((n, 2 n-6 , 3)) 2 for n from 7 to 14. We also found new ((6, 2, 3)) 2 and ((7, 2, 3)) 2 codes that are not equivalent to any stabilizer code, and extensive numerical evidence with VarQEC suggests that a ((7, 3, 3)) 2 code does not exist. Furthermore, we found many new channel-adaptive codes for error models involving nearest-neighbor correlated errors. Our work sheds new light on the understanding of QECC in general, which may also help to enhance near-term device performance with channel-adaptive errorcorrecting codes.
The sign structure of quantum states is closely connected to quantum phases of matter, yet detecting such fine-grained properties of amplitudes is subtle. Here we employ as a diagnostic measurementinduced entanglement (MIE)-the average entanglement generated between two parties after measuring the rest of the system. We propose that for a sign-free state, the MIE upon measuring in the sign-free basis decays no slower than correlations in the state before measurement. Concretely, we prove that MIE is upper bounded by mutual information for sign-free stabilizer states (essentially CSS codes), which establishes a bound between scaling dimensions of conformal field theories describing measurement-induced critical points in stabilizer systems. We also show that for sign-free qubit wavefunctions, MIE between two qubits is upper bounded by a simple two-point correlation function, and we verify our proposal in several critical ground states of one-dimensional systems, including the transverse field and tri-critical Ising models. In contrast, for states with sign structure, such bounds can be violated, as we illustrate in critical hybrid circuits involving both Haar or Clifford random unitaries and measurements, and gapless symmetry-protected topological states.
A quantum internet aims at harnessing networked quantum technologies, namely by distributing bipartite entanglement between distant nodes. However, multipartite entanglement between the nodes may empower the quantum internet for additional or better applications for communications, sensing, and computation. In this work, we present an algorithm for generating multipartite entanglement between different nodes of a quantum network with noisy quantum repeaters and imperfect quantum memories, where the links are entangled pairs. Our algorithm is optimal for GHZ states with 3 qubits, maximising simultaneously the final state fidelity and the rate of entanglement distribution. Furthermore, we determine the conditions yielding this simultaneous optimality for GHZ states with a higher number of qubits, and for other types of multipartite entanglement. Our algorithm is general also in the sense that it can optimize simultaneously arbitrary parameters. This work opens the way to optimally generate multipartite quantum correlations over noisy quantum networks, an important resource for distributed quantum technologies.
With the fast development of quantum technology, the sizes of both digital and analog quantum systems increase drastically. In order to have better control and understanding of the quantum hardware, an important task is to characterize the interaction, i.e., to learn the Hamiltonian, which determines both static and dynamic properties of the system. Conventional Hamiltonian learning methods either require costly process tomography or adopt impractical assumptions, such as prior information on the Hamiltonian structure and the ground or thermal states of the system. In this work, we present a robust and efficient Hamiltonian learning method that circumvents these limitations based only on mild assumptions. The proposed method can efficiently learn any Hamiltonian that is sparse on the Pauli basis using only short-time dynamics and local operations without any information on the Hamiltonian or preparing any eigenstates or thermal states. The method has a scalable complexity and a vanishing failure probability regarding the qubit number. Meanwhile, it performs robustly given the presence of state preparation and measurement errors and resiliently against a certain amount of circuit and shot noise. We numerically test the scaling and the estimation accuracy of the method for transverse field Ising Hamiltonian with random interaction strengths and molecular Hamiltonians, both with varying sizes and manually added noise. All these results verify the robustness and efficacy of the method, paving the way for a systematic understanding of the dynamics of large quantum systems.
Quantum speed limits (QSLs) provide lower bounds on the minimum time required for a process to unfold by using a distance between quantum states and identifying the speed of evolution or an upper bound to it. We introduce a generalization of QSL to characterize the evolution of a general operator when conjugated by a unitary. The resulting operator QSL (OQSL) admits a geometric interpretation, is shown to be tight, and holds for operator flows induced by arbitrary unitaries, i.e., with time-or parameter-dependent generators. The derived OQSL is applied to the Wegner flow equations in Hamiltonian renormalization group theory and the operator growth quantified by the Krylov complexity.
We present a general strategy for mapping fermionic systems to NISQ hardware with square qubit connectivity which yields low-depth quantum circuits, counted in the number of native two-qubit fSIM gates. We achieve this by leveraging novel operator decomposition and circuit compression techniques paired with specifically chosen low-depth fermion-toqubit mappings and allow for a high degree of gate cancellations and parallelism. Our mappings retain the flexibility to simultaneously optimize for qubit counts or qubit operator weights and can be used to investigate arbitrary fermionic lattice geometries. We showcase our approach by investigating the tight-binding model, the Fermi-Hubbard model as well as the multiorbital Hubbard-Kanamori model. We report unprecedentedly low circuit depths per single Trotter layer with up to a 70% improvement upon previous state-of-theart. Our compression technique also results in significant reduction of two-qubit gates. We find the lowest gate-counts when applying the XYZ-formalism to the DK mapping. Additionally, we show that our decomposition and compression formalism produces favourable circuits even when no native parameterized two-qubit gates are available.
What would be the consequences if there were fundamental limits to our ability to experimentally explore the world? In this work we seriously consider this question. We start by assuming the existence of statements whose truth value is not experimentally accessible. That is, there is no way, not even in theory, to directly test if these statements are true or false. We further develop a theory in which experimentally accessible statements are a union of a fixed minimum number of inaccessible statements. For example, the value of truth of the statements a and b is not accessible, but the value of truth of the statement "a or b" is accessible. We do not directly assume probability theory, we exclusively define experimentally accessible and inaccessible statements and build on these notions using the rules of classical logic. We find that an interesting structure emerges. Developing this theory, we relax the logical structure, naturally obtaining a derivation of a constrained quasiprobabilistic theory rich in structure that we name theory of inaccessible information. Surprisingly, the simplest model of theory of inaccessible information is the qubit in quantum mechanics. Along the path for the construction of this theory, we characterise and study a family of multiplicative information measures that we call inaccessibility measures.
We propose a scheme to generate a quantum phase gate via an unconventional geometric phase shift in an ion-trap system. Since the gate time is only related to the frequency of the vibrational mode, the present scheme, based on the resonant interaction of the trapped ions with a standing-wave laser beam, requires a much shorter gate time than the scheme based on the resonant interaction of the atoms and the cavity. Also the heating effect of the vibrational mode is negligible under certain conditions.
Using the theory of quantum trajectories, we study the classical capacity C of an amplitude damping multi-qubit channel interacting with a squeezed thermal bath in the superdense coding protocol. We generalize the Krauss operators for the corresponding single-qubit channel to the multi-qubit situation. Our numerical results confirm that the squeezing suppresses the decay rate of quantum coherence, leading to a preservation of nonclassical effects.
If the precise nonclassical behavior of radiation fields is to be investigated, it is crucial to quantize the electromagnetic fields. The traditional quantization procedure is extended to that of light described by time-dependent Hamiltonians by means of the Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant operator method. The quantization problem of light fields is presented in time-varying linear media by using the invariant operator theory of Lewis-Riesenfeld. The zero-point fluctuation of the electromagnetic fields in time-varying linear media is investigated. Since there are infinite modes inside a cavity, the fluctuation of the zero-point field is also infinite. However, in view of electrical engineering, the width of the band is finite enough that the infinite zero-point fluctuation can not be detected. As a means of detection for the zero-point fluctuation, an electron that interacts with the fluctuation of the field is considered. When there is conductivity in the media, the measured total fields decrease with time due to dissipation.
We investigate the effects of the active hold-off technique in single-photon detector (SPD) based on InGaAs/InP avalanche photodiodes (APDs). The concept of this technique is to hold-off an appropriate number of gate pulses after each recorded detection in order to wait for the trapping levels to empty. We found that at almost a 1-MHz repetition rate of the gate, such a hold-off mechanism must block at least two gate pulses after each photon click event to reduce the afterpulsing effect and does not significantly affect the count probability per gate. For higher repetition frequencies, the number of hold-off gates must be increased.
We present a new hybrid, local search algorithm for quantum approximate optimization of constrained combinatorial optimization problems. We focus on the Maximum Independent Set problem and demonstrate the ability of quantum local search to solve large problem instances on quantum devices with few qubits. This hybrid algorithm iteratively finds independent sets over carefully constructed neighborhoods and combines these solutions to obtain a global solution. We study the performance of this algorithm on 3-regular, Community, and Erdős-Rényi graphs with up to 100 nodes.
In the training of over-parameterized model functions via gradient descent, sometimes the parameters do not change significantly and remain close to their initial values. This phenomenon is called lazy training and motivates consideration of the linear approximation of the model function around the initial parameters. In the lazy regime, this linear approximation imitates the behavior of the parameterized function whose associated kernel, called the tangent kernel, specifies the training performance of the model. Lazy training is known to occur in the case of (classical) neural networks with large widths. In this paper, we show that the training of geometrically local parameterized quantum circuits enters the lazy regime for large numbers of qubits. More precisely, we prove bounds on the rate of changes of the parameters of such a geometrically local parameterized quantum circuit in the training process, and on the precision of the linear approximation of the associated quantum model function; both of these bounds tend to zero as the number of qubits grows. We support our analytic results with numerical simulations.
The detrimental effect of noise accumulates as quantum computers grow in size. In the case where devices are too small or noisy to perform error correction, error mitigation may be used. Error mitigation does not increase the fidelity of quantum states, but instead aims to reduce the approximation error in quantities of concern, such as expectation values of observables. However, it is as yet unclear which circuit types, and devices of which characteristics, benefit most from the use of error mitigation. Here we develop a methodology to assess the performance of quantum error mitigation techniques. Our benchmarks are volumetric in design, and are performed on different superconducting hardware devices. Extensive classical simulations are also used for comparison. We use these benchmarks to identify disconnects between the predicted and practical performance of error mitigation protocols, and to identify the situations in which their use is beneficial. To perform these experiments, and for the benefit of the wider community, we introduce Qermit -an open source python package for quantum error mitigation. Qermit supports a wide range of error mitigation methods, is easily extensible and has a modular graph-based software design that facilitates composition of error mitigation protocols and subroutines.
We develop a framework of "semi-automatic differentiation" that combines existing gradient-based methods of quantum optimal control with automatic differentiation. The approach allows to optimize practically any computable functional and is implemented in two open source Julia packages, GRAPE.jl and Krotov.jl, part of the QuantumControl.jl framework. Our method is based on formally rewriting the optimization functional in terms of propagated states, overlaps with target states, or quantum gates. An analytical application of the chain rule then allows to separate the time propagation and the evaluation of the functional when calculating the gradient. The former can be evaluated with great efficiency via a modified grape scheme. The latter is evaluated with automatic differentiation, but with a profoundly reduced complexity compared to the time propagation. Thus, our approach eliminates the prohibitive memory and runtime overhead normally associated with automatic differentiation and facilitates further advancement in quantum control by enabling the direct optimization of non-analytic functionals for quantum information and quantum metrology, especially in open quantum systems. We illustrate and benchmark the use of semi-automatic differentiation for the optimization of perfectly entangling quantum gates on superconducting qubits coupled via a shared transmission line. This includes the first direct optimization of the non-analytic gate concurrence.
Recent constructions of quantum low-density parity-check (QLDPC) codes provide optimal scaling of the number of logical qubits and the minimum distance in terms of the code length, thereby opening the door to fault-tolerant quantum systems with minimal resource overhead. However, the hardware path from nearest-neighbor-connection-based topological codes to long-rangeinteraction-demanding QLDPC codes is likely a challenging one. Given the practical difficulty in building a monolithic architecture for quantum systems, such as computers, based on optimal QLDPC codes, it is worth considering a distributed implementation of such codes over a network of interconnected medium-sized quantum processors. In such a setting, all syndrome measurements and logical operations must be performed through the use of high-fidelity shared entangled states between the processing nodes. Since probabilistic many-to-1 distillation schemes for purifying entanglement are inefficient, we investigate quantum error correction based entanglement purification in this work. Specifically, we employ QLDPC codes to distill GHZ states, as the resulting high-fidelity logical GHZ states can interact directly with the code used to perform distributed quantum computing (DQC), e.g. for fault-tolerant Steane syndrome extraction. This protocol is applicable beyond the application of DQC since entanglement distribution and purification is a quintessential task of any quantum network. We use the min-sum algorithm (MSA) based iterative decoder with a sequential schedule for distilling 3-qubit GHZ states using a rate 0.118 family of lifted product QLDPC codes and obtain an input threshold of ≈ 0.7974 under i.i.d. single-qubit depolarizing noise. This represents the best threshold for a yield of 0.118 for any GHZ purification protocol. Our results apply to larger size GHZ states as well, where we extend our technical result about a measurement property of 3-qubit GHZ states to construct a scalable GHZ purification protocol. Our software is available at:
capacity enhancement through the coherent control of channels has attracted much attention of late, with work exploring the effect of coherent control of channel causal orders, channel superpositions, and information encoding. Coherently controlling channels necessitates a non-trivial expansion of the channel description, which for superposing qubit channels, is equivalent to expanding the channel to act on qutrits. Here we explore the nature of this capacity enhancement for the superposition of channels by comparing the maximum coherent information through depolarizing qubit channels and relevant superposed and qutrit channels. We show that the expanded qutrit channel description in itself is sufficient to explain the capacity enhancement without any use of superposition.
Emerging quantum hardware provides new possibilities for quantum simulation. While much of the research has focused on simulating closed quantum systems, the real-world quantum systems are mostly open. Therefore, it is essential to develop quantum algorithms that can effectively simulate open quantum systems. Here we present an adaptive variational quantum algorithm for simulating open quantum system dynamics described by the Lindblad equation. The algorithm is designed to build resource-efficient ansätze through the dynamical addition of operators by maintaining the simulation accuracy. We validate the effectiveness of our algorithm on both noiseless simulators and IBM Q quantum processors and observe good quantitative and qualitative agreement with the exact solution. We also investigate the scaling of the required resources with system size and accuracy and find polynomial behavior. Our results demonstrate that near-future quantum processors are capable of simulating open quantum systems.
Bell's theorem states that Local Hidden Variables (LHVs) cannot fully explain the statistics of measurements on some entangled quantum states. It is natural to ask how much supplementary classical communication would be needed to simulate them. We study two long-standing open questions in this field with neural network simulations and other tools. First, we present evidence that all projective measurements on partially entangled pure twoqubit states require only one bit of communication. We quantify the statistical distance between the exact quantum behaviour and the product of the trained network, or of a semianalytical model inspired by it. Second, while it is known on general grounds (and obvious) that one bit of communication cannot eventually reproduce all bipartite quantum correlation, explicit examples have proved evasive. Our search failed to find one for several bipartite Bell scenarios with up to 5 inputs and 4 outputs, highlighting the power of one bit of communication in reproducing quantum correlations.
Quantum neural networks (QNNs) use parameterized quantum circuits with datadependent inputs and generate outputs through the evaluation of expectation values.
Topological quantum computations are built on a foundation of two basic tasks: preserving logical observables through time and moving logical observables through space. Memory experiments, which check how well logical observables are preserved through time, are a well established benchmark. Strangely, there is no corresponding well established benchmark for moving logical observables through space. This paper tries to fill that gap with "stability experiments", which check how well a quantum error correction system can determine the product of a large region of stabilizers. Stability experiments achieve this by testing on a region that is locally a normal code but globally has a known product of stabilizers.
We improve the planar honeycomb code by describing boundaries that need no additional physical connectivity, and by optimizing the shape of the qubit patch. We then benchmark the code using Monte Carlo sampling to estimate logical error rates and derive metrics including thresholds, lambdas, and teraquop footprints. We determine that the planar honeycomb code can create a logical qubit with one-in-a-trillion logical error rates using 7000 physical qubits at a 0.1% gate-level error rate (or 900 physical qubits given native two-qubit parity measurements). Our results cement the honeycomb code as a promising candidate for two-dimensional qubit architectures with sparse connectivity.
In this paper, I cut the cost of Y basis measurement and initialization in the surface code by nearly an order of magnitude. Fusing twist defects diagonally across the surface code patch reaches the Y basis in ⌊d/2⌋ + 2 rounds, without leaving the bounding box of the patch and without reducing the code distance. I use Monte Carlo sampling to benchmark the performance of the construction under circuit noise, and to analyze the distribution of logical errors. Cheap inplace Y basis measurement reduces the cost of S gates and magic state factories, and unlocks Pauli measurement tomography of surface code qubits on space-limited hardware.
Measurement-induced nonlinear operation in linear optics is a promising technique to realize quantum computation and communications. Such an operation has been demonstrated via the generation of photon-subtracted squeezed states, namely, Schrödinger-cat states. Nielsen and Mølmer have proposed an efficient scheme to generate the cat states with larger amplitudes relative to previous experimental results. We present a simple experimental implementation of their scheme and analyze it while considering experimental imperfections. Our study indicates that the current photon detection technology meets the conditions necessary for their operation.
Unavoidable systematic errors hinder precise quantum control. Pulse length error (PLE) and off-resonance one (ORE) are typical systematic errors that are encountered during one-qubit control. A composite operation, one of open-loop error cancellation techniques, can help compensate for the effects of systematic errors during quantum operation. Several composite operations that are robust against either PLE or ORE have been identified. However, few attempts have been made to construct composite operations that are robust against both errors (bi-robust) simultaneously. We develop a new bi-robust composite operation for controlling one-qubit, which exhibits a short operation time.
In reality, a quantum system will inevitably interact with the environment around it, and this will lead to decoherence. In this paper, we mainly study quantum entanglement and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering of two-qubit system in some typical environments. Exactly, consider the initial two-qubit state to be the Werner-type state, we let one of the qubits pass through some different channels including amplitude damping (AD) channel, phase damping (PD) channel, phase flip (PF) channel, and bit flip (BF) channel. We research entanglement and EPR steering in the progress. Most importantly, we find that entanglement and EPR steering can be improved by local filtering operations with an appropriate k. Besides, we also give an example of the fact that the EPR steering is the proper subset of entanglement. These results will promote the application of the two quantum resources in quantum information tasks.
We investigated spectral-hole narrowing in optical transitions between hyperfine sublevels in isotopically purified erbium ions ( 167 Er 3+ ). The homogeneous broadening Γ h of the optical transition was measured in purified and non-purified Er 3+ -doped crystals via spectral-hole burning. The measured Γ h in the purified 167 Er 3+ exhibited a significant reduction of the hole width because the fluctuation of the local magnetic field induced by the electron spins of the surrounding Er 3+ ions was eliminated. Because the narrowing of the Γ h is equivalent to the prolongation of the coherence time, the isotopic purification is effective for the coherent manipulation of quantum states.
The thermodynamic properties of a SrPt 3 P compound in the superconducting state have been investigated by taking the Eliashberg approach. The anti-perovskite SrPt 3 P is identified as a strong-coupling (λ = 1.33) s-wave superconductor with
Magneto-plasma-dynamic thrusters (MPDTs) act as electromagnetic plasma accelerators and represent a high power, electric propulsion option for primary space missions. One of the major problems facing MPDT operation is the onset of a critical regime, which is found when the power is increased beyond a threshold value, depending mainly on the thruster geometry, the type and mass flow rate of the propellant and the intensity of the magnetic field applied. In this regime, large fluctuations in the electrode voltage signals, damage to the anode and decreased efficiency are observed. Since 2000, several test campaigns have been carried out to investigate the electrostatic and magnetic properties of plasma fluctuations using electromagnetic and optic probes and ultraviolet tomography. Results obtained have shown a strong relation between the onset phenomena and the growth of a large scale magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) instability, with helical kink mode features. On the basis of the experimental observations, a passive method to suppress instability is proposed and has been partially tested, with encouraging results.